---
# required metadata

title: Set up Azure resources for Electronic invoicing
description: This topic provides an overview of the process for setting up Microsoft Azure resources for Electronic invoicing.
author: dkalyuzh
ms.date: 01/26/2022
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kfend
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: dkalyuzh
ms.search.validFrom: 
ms.dyn365.ops.version: 

---

# Set up Azure resources for Electronic invoicing

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

The process for setting up Microsoft Azure resources for Electronic invoicing has three steps. The first two steps, "Create an Azure key vault in the Azure portal" and "Create an Azure storage account in the Azure portal," are mandatory. The third step, "Configure a SharePoint connection," is optional.

## Create an Azure key vault in the Azure portal

Create a key vault in your Azure subscription. We recommend that you create a separate key vault for Electronic invoicing, and that you don't combine secrets with other applications. Create as many secrets and certificates as you require for your scenarios in electronic documents. You must create at least one secret to store the shared access signature (SAS) token of the Azure storage account that you will create in the next step.

For information about how to complete this step, see [Create an Azure key vault in the Azure portal](e-invoicing-create-azure-key-vault-azure-portal.md).

## Create an Azure storage account in the Azure portal

You own all the electronic documents and files that are generated by the Electronic invoicing service or enter the service. Those documents and files are stored in an Azure storage account that you create in your Azure subscription. The service will access your storage account by using the SAS token that is taken from your Key Vault secret.

For information about how to complete this step, see [Create an Azure storage account in the Azure portal](e-invoicing-create-azure-storage-account-azure-portal.md).

## Configure a SharePoint connection

In some scenarios, you might have to save electronic files to SharePoint and retrieve them from SharePoint. To ensure that the Electronic invoicing service can access your SharePoint folders, configure access to SharePoint.

For information about how to complete this step, see [Configure a SharePoint connection](e-invoicing-create-sharepoint-connection.md).
