---
# required metadata

title: Electronic invoicing add-on administration components
description: This topic provides information about the components that are related to administration of the Electronic invoicing add-on.
author: gionoder
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 01/28/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-platform
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kfend
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 97423
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: janeaug
ms.search.validFrom: 2020-07-08
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 10.0.12

---

# Electronic invoicing add-on administration components

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]
[!include [banner](../includes/preview-banner.md)]

This topic provides information about the components that are related to administration of the Electronic invoicing add-on. It also provides information about how to configure the Electronic invoicing add-on service.

## Azure

Use Microsoft Azure to create the secrets for the key vault and storage account. Then use the secrets in the configuration of the Electronic invoicing add-on.

## Lifecycle Services

Use Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services (LCS) to enable the add-on for the microservices for your LCS deployment project.

In LCS, select the **Preview feature management** tile, and then turn on the **e-Invoicing Service** feature.

## Regulatory Configuration Services

Dynamics 365 Regulatory Configuration Services (RCS) is the interface that is used to configure the Electronic invoicing add-on. Resources such as environments and electronic invoicing features are created, maintained, and hosted in RCS. When the resources are ready, they are published to the Electronic invoicing add-on service.

For more information about RCS, see [Regulatory Configuration Services (RCS) - Globalization features](rcs-globalization-feature.md)

### Integration with the Electronic invoicing add-on

Before you can use RCS to configure electronic invoices, you must configure RCS to allow for communication with the Electronic invoicing add-on. You complete this configuration on the **Electronic invoicing add-on** tab of the **Electronic reporting parameters** page.

#### Service endpoint

The URL of the Electronic invoicing add-on endpoint can vary according to the Azure datacenter geography. The following table lists the availablity per region:

| Azure datacenter geography | Service endpoint URL                                                       |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| East US                    | `https://electronicinvoicing.eus-il301.gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com/` |
| West US                    | `https://electronicinvoicing.wus-il301.gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com/` |
| North EU                   | `https://electronicinvoicing.neu-il301.gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com/` |
| West EU                    | `https://electronicinvoicing.weu-il301.gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com/` |

#### Application ID

The application ID is the ID of the Electronic invoicing add-on application. In this case, the value is fixed: **0cdb527f-a8d1-4bf8-9436-b352c68682b2**.

#### LCS environment ID

The LCS environment ID is the ID of your organization's LCS subscription.

### Service environments

Service environments are logical partitions that are created to support execution of the electronic invoicing features in the Electronic invoicing add-on. The security secrets and digital certificates, and the governance (that is, access permissions), must be configured at the service environment level.

Customers can create as many service environments as they want. All the service environments that a customer creates are independent of each other.

Service environments must be created and maintained in RCS. When the service environments are ready, they must be published to the Electronic invoicing add-on.

#### Service environment status

Service environments can be managed through status. The possible options are:

- **Not published** – The environment has been created, but it hasn't yet been published.
- **Published** – The environment has been published to the Electronic invoicing add-on.
- **Changed** – The attributes of a published environment have been changed, but the changes haven't yet been published.

#### Customer secrets

The Electronic invoicing add-on service is responsible for storing all your business data in the Azure resources that your company owns. To ensure that the service works correctly, and that all the business data that is required for and generated by the Electronic invoicing add-on is accessed only by the add-on, you must create two main Azure resources:

- An Azure storage account (Blob storage) that will store electronic invoices
- An Azure key vault that will store certificates and the uniform resource identifier (URI) of the storage account

> [!NOTE]
> A dedicated key vault and customer storage account must be allocated specifically for use with the Electronic invoicing add-on.

For more information, see [Create an Azure storage account and a key vault](e-invoicing-create-azure-storage-account-key-vault.md).

#### Users

Each service environment must list the users who can connect from Dynamics 365 Finance and Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management in the Electronic invoicing add-on.

#### Publication

Service environments must be published to the Electronic invoicing add-on before they can be used. Only published environments can be accessed by Finance and Supply Chain Management. Additionally, a service environment must be published before any updates to its attributes will take effect on the electronic invoicing service.

### Connected applications

Connected applications are the instances of Finance and Supply Chain Management that you might want to reach through RCS. Besides the application URL and its tenant, a connected application contains the credentials that enable RCS to connect to the environment.

Through the connected applications, you can configure part of the electronic invoicing feature in Finance and Supply Chain Management to make the whole electronic invoicing feature work.

## Finance and Supply Chain Management

### Integration with Electronic invoicing add-on

Before you can use Finance and Supply Chain Management to issue electronic invoices through the Electronic invoicing add-on, the add-on must be configured to allow for communication with the service.

#### Electronic invoicing add-on integration feature

To enable communication between Finance and Supply Chain Management and the Electronic invoicing add-on, you must turn on the **Electronic Invoicing add-on integration** feature in the **Feature management** workspace.

#### Service endpoint

The service endpoint is the URL where the Electronic invoicing add-on is located. Before electronic invoices can be issued, the service endpoint must be configured in Finance and Supply Chain Management to allow for communication with the service.

To configure the service endpoint, go to **Organization administration \> Setup \> Electronic document parameter**, and then, on the **Submission services** tab, in the **Electronic invoicing add-on URL** field, enter the URL as described in the table described in section **Service endpoint**.

#### Environments

The environment name that is entered in Finance and Supply Chain Management refers to the name of the environment that is created in RCS and published to the Electronic invoicing add-on.

The environment must be configured on the **Submission services** tab of the **Electronic document parameter** page, so that every request to issue electronic invoices contains the environment where the Electronic invoicing add-on can determine which electronic invoicing feature must process the request.

## Additional resources

- [Configure electronic invoices in RCS](e-invoicing-configuration-rcs.md)
- [Issue electronic invoices in Finance and Supply Chain Management](e-invoicing-issuing-electronic-invoices-finance-supply-chain-management.md)
