---
# required metadata

title: Snapshots overview (Preview)
description: This topic describes the snapshots feature, which lets you save a cash flow forecast for analysis or comparison with actuals later. When you generate a cash flow forecast, you can save that forecast as a "snapshot." You can then use that snapshots to edit the accounts that were included in the forecast, or compare the forcast in the snapshot to actuals.
author: ShivamPandey-msft
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 05/19/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: roschlom
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 14151
ms.assetid: 3d43ba40-780c-459a-a66f-9a01d556e674
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: shpandey
ms.search.validFrom: 2020-05-19
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 10.0.12

---

# Snapshots overview (Preview)

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]
[!include [preview banner](../includes/preview-banner.md)]

Snapshots let organizations edit and save information about their cash position and cash forecasts at a point in time. You can compare the snapshot with actual financials, examine the variance, and use that information to improve cash flow forecasts over time. More specifically, snapshots can be used in the following ways:

- Track cash position and cash forecasts over time.
- Filter the data to show a subset of legal entities that the snapshot was created for.
- Edit the cash position and cash forecast that were generated by the system.
- Conduct what-if analysis to consider optimistic, pessimistic, and most likely views of the cash flow.
- Compare the actual financial performance with the forecast that is saved in the snapshot.

You can create a snapshot by select **New snapshot** on either the **Cash position** tab or the **Cash forecast** tab on the **Cash flow forecasts** workspace. After a snapshot is created, the inflows and outflows in it can be edited and saved. All saved snapshots are available on the **Snapshots** tab. To open a snapshot, select its name.

The cash inflows and outflows in snapshots can be edited at any time. When an inflow amount or an outflow amount is edited, the updated amount is prorated to the liquidity accounts that made the original balance. When you've finished editing a snapshot, select **Save** to save your changes.

To compare multiple snapshots, select **Compare snapshots**. You can compare two snapshots at a time. Select the two snapshots to compare, and then select **OK**. The **Compare snapshot** page will show a comparison of the selected snapshots. The chart in the upper section of the page shows a comparison of the cash inflows, cash outflows, and bank balances in the overlapping periods between the two snapshots. The grid in the lower section shows a detailed comparison of the two forecasts for each liquidity amount. The **Variance** column in the grid shows the difference between the balances in a period.

To compare actual financial results with a forecast that was saved as a snapshot, select **Compare with actuals**. The **Compare snapshot** page will show a comparison of the actual amounts and the forecast. The chart in the upper section of the page shows a comparison of the cash inflows, cash outflows, and bank balances in the overlapping periods between the two snapshots. The grid in the lower section shows a detailed comparison of actual balances per period and the forecasted balance for each liquidity amount. The **Variance** column in the grid shows the difference between the actual balance in a period to the forecasted balance.

#### Privacy notice
Previews (1) might use less privacy and fewer security measures than the Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations service, (2) aren't included in the service level agreement (SLA) for this service, (3) should not be used to process personal data or other data that is subject to legal or regulatory compliance requirements, and (4) have limited support.
