---
title: Review and apply purchase order changes received in vendor emails (production ready preview)
description: Discover how Copilot automates vendor email analysis, identifies purchase order changes, and helps you apply updates.
author: t-benebo
ms.author: benebotg
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.form: null
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/24/2025
ms.custom:
  - bap-template
  - ai-gen-docs-bap
  - ai-gen-description
  - ai-seo-date:04/24/2025
---

# Review and apply purchase order changes received in vendor emails (production ready preview)

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]
[!INCLUDE [preview-banner](~/../shared-content/shared/preview-includes/preview-banner.md)]
<!-- KFM: Preview until further notice -->

The supplier communications agent helps speed up communications with vendors about purchase orders by allowing Copilot to read emails from some or all vendors.

When Copilot analyzes a vendor email, it's able to understand what the message is about (confirmation, change request, or other) and which purchase order it refers to. Copilot then matches the information extracted from the email to the fields in the system and indicates any changes. Then, you just need to review the information provided by Copilot, review the proposed changes, and decide whether to accept them. Copilot saves you the time otherwise needed to manually find, open, and edit the purchase order in the system.

When Copilot reads a vendor email, it classifies the intent of the message into one of the following categories:

- *Purchase order confirmation* – Copilot detected that the purpose of the messages was to confirm one or more purchase orders (including all the purchase orders mentioned in the email).
- *Purchase order change request* – Copilot detected that the message contains at least one requested change to a purchase order. For example, the vendor is writing to tell you that they can't deliver the full quantity requested for one or more lines, can't deliver on time, or to reject the entire order.
- *Rejected* – Copilot detected that the vendor can't supply the requested purchase order.
- *Other* – Copilot couldn't identify each of the previous intents.

For the first two cases of intent, Copilot identifies which purchase orders the email relates to and matches the information in the email to information in the system.

When you're reviewing incoming changes based on email, the system shows the original email, the current information in the system, plus the specific changes being proposed, which makes it easy to understand each change. After you've reviewed the proposal and made any corrections, the system lets you apply the changes directly to the relevant purchase order.

## Configure Supplier communications agent to track your email

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Complete the steps listed in [Set up and configure the Supplier Communications Agent](./supplier-com-agent-setup.md) first.

The agent needs to be configured to monitor a specific email address for incoming messages from vendors. Follow these steps to set it up:

1. Sign in to the Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management environment as a user with [permissions to manage agent configuration](./supplier-com-agent-setup.md#permissions-for-users-managing-agent-configuration).
1. Go to **Agents** module, and **Agents (Preview)** page.
1. Select the **Library** tab.
1. Click **Select** on the **Speed up updates in purchase orders with Supplier communications agent**. The **Agent configuration** window opens.
1. Click **Any vendor** drop-down to select the vendors whose emails the agent should ananlyze. Select **Any vendor** to track all vendors, or **Ppecific vendors** to provide a list of vendors to track.
1. Select the mailbox that the agent should monitor. You should see all mailboxes that the user has access to in the drop down. For more information, see [Synchronize mailboxes with Dataverse](./supplier-com-agent-setup.md#synchronize-mailboxes-with-dataverse) if the mailbox you are looking for isn't in the list.
1. Click **Activate**.

    > [!TIP]
    > The **Enable email access** warning message is informational and doesn't prevent you from activating the agent.

## Review and accept changes suggested by the agent

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Confirm the user has access to the mailboxes. For more information, see [Synchronize mailboxes with Dataverse](./supplier-com-agent-setup.md#synchronize-mailboxes-with-dataverse).

1. Go to the **Purchase order receipt and follow-up** workspace. A **(Preview) Purchase order updates** tile indicates the number of emails that require review. Select the tile to open the **(Preview) Purchase order updates** page.
1. The left side of the page lists all of the emails read by the agent. The right side shows summaries generated by Copilot.
1. Do one of the following steps.
    - To apply all the changes the vendor suggested, select **Apply all suggestions**. This includes all purchase orders mentioned in the message.
    - To apply all suggestions to a single selected purchase header and all of its lines, select **Apply suggestions** in the **Purchase order header** section.
    - To apply suggestions to specific purchase order lines, selecting the relevant lines and then select **Apply suggestions** in the **Purchaser order lines** section.

## Teach the agent to better interpret incoming email content

Sometimes, a vendor might use acronyms or other language that isn't saved in the system, so the agent might not know how to interpret it. You can teach the agent how to better interpret incoming email content, which will improve its accuracy for next time.

### Teach the agent about column mappings

You might see, at the top of the Copilot summary, that the agent shows **Review column mappings**. This could be because the vendor attached a PDF document that contains several columns that could map to a single field in the system or it could be that the message or attachment uses an acronym that the agent doesn't know how to interpret.

To resolve the ambiguous information, select **Review column mappings** and clarify the mapping. You can then choose to save the mapping for all vendors, for this vendor, or not at all.

If you decide to save a mapping for all vendors or for this vendor, you can always go to **Taught items** to see everything that has been taught, and where you can delete entries if needed.

### Teach the agent about value equivalences

A vendor might use synonyms or industry equivalences that aren't saved on your system. You can train the agent to recognize these equivalences.

For example, you might use a unit of measure called *cartons*, while a given vendor always calls these *cassettes*. When the agent detects this as a change, you can clarify it for the given line, which causes the teaching panel to pop up, where you can choose if you want to save it for all vendors, this vendor, or not at all.
