---
title: Add custom resources to your customization code
description: Learn how to add custom static resources to your customization code so they're accessible in your Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce theme.
author: samjarawan
ms.date: 01/30/2026
ms.topic: how-to
ms.reviewer: v-griffinc
ms.search.region: Global
ms.author: asharchw
ms.search.validFrom: 2019-10-31
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
---
# Add custom resources to your customization code

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

This article describes how to add custom static resources to your customization code so they're accessible in your Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce theme.

Some scenarios require adding custom static resources such as font, image, or CSS files that are accessible from within a module or a theme. Add these static files to a `/public` folder within your SDK customization code so they're included in the configuration package generated by using the [CLI **yarn msdyn365 pack** command](cli-command-reference.md#pack). You can then use relative paths to access the resources.

During the build step, style Sassy CSS (SCSS) files compile into CSS files and store inside the same `/public` folder. Take this process into account when referencing other static resources inside the `/public` folder.

## Example

You can add resources to the `/public` directory or to any subdirectory under this directory. For example, adding a font called "NewFont-Regular" could include adding multiple font files such as "NewFont-Regular.eot," "NewFont-Regular.woff," "NewFont-Regular.ttv," and "NewFont-Regular.svg" to the `/public` directory.

After you add files to the `/public` directory, use relative paths in the Sassy CSS (SCSS) file to point to them. The following SCSS example is taken from a theme that is located in the `/src/themes/spring` folder. When you use the command-line interface (CLI) command **pack**, the SCSS code compiles into a zip file created in the `/build/public/static/css/spring` directory. A relative path then accesses the font within the `/public` folder.

```SCSS
@import "bootstrap/scss/bootstrap";

@font-face {
    font-family: 'NewRocker-Regular';
    src: url('../../../NewFont-Regular.eot');
    src: url('../../../NewFont-Regular.eot?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
         url('../../../NewFont-Regular.woff') format('woff'),
         url('../../../NewFont-Regular.ttf') format('truetype'),
         url('../../../NewFont-Regular.svg#NewFont-Regular') format('svg');
}

body {
    font-family: 'NewFont-Regular', Fallback, sans-serif;
}
```

## Dynamic access to the public path

When you deploy your e-commerce customizations by using Microsoft Lifecycle Services (LCS), the physical paths to any files stored in the `/public` directory change. You can't provide static physical paths to these files from within your code. However, a helper API named **getAsset** is available to help you obtain the path.

The following example from a custom module `.tsx` file shows how to use the **getAsset** API to generate a URL to a font file stored in the `/public/webfonts` directory.

```typescript
import { getAsset } from '@msdyn365-commerce/core';

const url = `${getAsset('webfonts/fa-solid-900.woff', this.props.context.request)}`;
```

## Additional resources

[CLI command reference](cli-command-reference.md)

[Theming overview](theming.md)

[Create a new theme](create-theme.md)

[Configure theme settings](configure-theme-settings.md)

[Configure theme style presets](theme-style-presets.md)

[Extend a theme to add module extensions](theme-module-extensions.md)

[Override a module library component in a theme](override-theme-component.md)

[Extend a theme from a base theme](extend-theme.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
