---
# required metadata

title: Modules overview
description: This topic provides an overview of .
author: samjarawan
manager: annbe
ms.date: 10/01/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-365-commerce
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form: 
audience: Developer
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: v-chgri
ms.search.scope: Retail, Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: samjar
ms.search.validFrom: 2019-10-31
ms.dyn365.ops.version: Release 10.0.5

---
# Modules overview

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

This topic provides an overview of .

## Modules

Modules represent the core building blocks that make up an online e-Commerce page. Here are some examples of modules:

* A content block module that is featured on a page, and that shows a product image and description, together with a "call-to-action" button that can be used to purchase the product or get more information about it
* A promo banner module that highlights a promotion as a banner on a page
* A header module that is made up of smaller module components, such as a search module, a sign-in module, and a navigation module
* A script module that injects JavaScript inside of the HTML on a page

## Anatomy of a module
Modules are built using React components and are made up of various files, see the below list for an overview of each file.
* [Module definition file](module-definition-file.md)
* [Module React component file](module-react-file.md)
* [Module view file](module-view-file.md)
* [Module data file](module-data-file.md)
* [Module mock file](module-mock-file.md)
* [Module test file](module-test-file.md)
* [Module props.autogenerated.ts file](module-props-autogenerated-ts-file.md)

## Store starter kit modules
Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce provides a [store starter kit](../starter-kit-overview.md) set of modules to use when building your online e-Commerce pages.  Some CSS for each module can be changed using style presets and/or CSS overrides inside of the site builder or the online SDK can be used to make custom theme changes to change the CSS or even extend a module's view to change the rendered HTML layout. Each starter kit module can also be cloned into a new custom module for deeper changes if needed.  More details are provided below as to which option is best for various requirements.

To see how a site builder page builder interacts with modules see the [Work with modules](../work-with-modules.md) document.

## Get started with module development
The store starter kit provides a broad set of modules for use on your online site, however you may have requirements that will require some module customization.  

To get started with module development you'll need to install a set of tools and the Dynamics 365 Commerce Online SDK (software development kit).  See the [Set up a development environment](setup-dev-environment.md) for step by step instructions to set up a dev environment and create your first custom module.

The following provides a reference to help you pick the best option for your needs.There are several different levels of module customizations available from extending a store starter kit module, cloning a store starter kit module or creating a new custom module.  

### Extending a store starter kit module

### Theme changes
If you have a scenario where a store starter kit module does everything you need but you want to change the module look and feel, this can usually be done with CSS changes.  CSS changes will even allow you to hide unwanted elements in a module if desired.  The site **theme** contains the CSS for all modules in SCSS files.  In some cases you can make CSS changes directly in the site builder tool which would not require any module or theme customizations at all.

#### Style presets
When making CSS changes to a module the first thing to check is can it be done with using the custom **style preset** option in site builder.  Each module has the ability to surface some style options that can be changed in the style preset UI in the site builder tool.  This allows simple changes for some CSS within a module, an example might be the background color of the module or the text color and size.  For more information see the [Work with style presets](../style-presets.md) documentation. Note, this option is only available with version 10.0.12 release of the store starter kit.

#### CSS override files
If the style presets option isn't available for the element you need to change but you know the CSS needed to make the change, you can easily create a CSS override file and upload it from within the site builder tool.  This option does not require using the online SDK and uploading a configuration package via LCS so it's a much faster deployment.  In general if you can use tools such as a modern browsers HTML/CSS debugging tools, and can modify the CSS to your liking you can then copy those changes into a single CSS override file.  When the e-Commerce page is rendered after the standard module CSS is applied, the overrides file is then applied and will override the theme specific CSS for that module.  This is great for fast experimentation against the live site and can easily be removed if not needed.  See the [Work with CSS overrides files](../css-override-files.md) for more information.

#### Theme changes
If your CSS changes are more involved, the next level of customization is making changes to the site theme.  The site theme will contain all of the CSS the modules require using SCSS files within the theme.  By default the **fabrikam** starter theme is provided and can be used for your online site, however it's generally advisible to create a new custom theme.  Creating a custom theme is easy and you can even **clone** the fabrikam theme to make a copy as a start to your own theme.  See the [Theming overview](theming.md) document for more information.

To create a new theme see the [Create a new theme](create-theme.md) document for details.
To clone the fabrikam theme as a starter to your own theme follow the below steps.

1. Use the CLI **clone** command to create a copy of the fabrikam theme.  Example ```yarn msdyn365 clone fabrikam MY_NEW_THEME``` where MY_NEW_THEME is the name of the new theme.
1. The clone command will make a copy of a module and put it under the **/src/modules** directory.  A theme is just a special module that is stored under the **/src/themes** directory.  You'll need to manually copy the new theme from the **src/modules** into the **src/themes** directory.  If no themes directory exists, you can manually create it first.
1. Within the theme directory you'll find a file called MY_NEW_THEME.definition.json, where MY_NEW_THEME is the name provided with the clone command.  This file will list the metadata used in site builder such as the theme friendly name and description.

The last step will be to change the SCSS for any modules that you need.  Each starter kit module SCSS is stored under the themes **/styles/04-modules** directory. There are many other SCSS files that can also be changed if needed, for example under the **//styles/00-settings** you'll find a colors.scss file which contains the common color definitions.

Once a theme is created or modified using the Online SDK, the configuration package can be uploaded via LCS see the [Package configurations and deploy them to an onlin environment](package-deploy.md) for details.  Once themes are deployed, from within site builder you can change between available themes, see the [Select a site theme](../select-site-theme.md) document for more information.





CSS.  You can change the theme SCSS for a schange the layout or add some extra The first and easiest 


### Cloning a store starter kit module
