---
title: Manage business partner users on B2B e-commerce websites using Dynamics 365 Sales
description: Learn how to use Microsoft Dynamics 365 Sales to manage business partner approvals for Dynamics 365 Commerce business-to-business (B2B) websites.
author: ShalabhjainMSFT
ms.date: 01/15/2026
ms.topic: how-to
ms.reviewer: v-griffinc
ms.search.region: Global
ms.author: shajain
ms.search.validFrom: 2022-01-31
ms.search.industry: retail
---

# Manage business partner users on B2B e-commerce websites using Dynamics 365 Sales

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

This article describes how to use Microsoft Dynamics 365 Sales to manage business partner approvals for Dynamics 365 Commerce business-to-business (B2B) websites. Organizations that invest in the Dynamics 365 Sales solution can use its lead and opportunity concepts for the B2B e-commerce business partner approval process.

For background information about the B2B business partner approval process, see [Manage business partner users on B2B e-commerce websites](manage-b2b-users.md).

Potential business partners can start the onboarding process to a B2B e-commerce website by submitting an onboarding request via a link on the B2B website. After the request is submitted, and the relevant jobs (such as **P-0001** and **Synchronize orders and channel requests**) run in Commerce headquarters, the request is saved on the **All prospects** page in Commerce headquarters. You can then complete the business partner prospect approval process in Sales.

After you enable integration between Sales and Commerce, creating a business partner prospect in Commerce creates a *lead* in Sales.

The following illustration shows an example of a lead creation page for a business partner prospect in Sales.

:::image type="content" source="../media/LeadInSales.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the lead creation page in Dynamics 365 Sales showing contact and company sections for a business partner prospect.":::

In the illustration, the **Contact** section shows the person who submitted the onboarding request, and the **Company** section shows the organization. A note in the **Timeline** section indicates that the lead was generated by the dual-write infrastructure. Because the dual-write infrastructure created the lead, it doesn't appear in the **My open leads** drop-down list. Instead, it appears under a new view named **All commerce B2B leads**.

Per the standard lead qualification process in Sales, when a user "qualifies" the lead, an *opportunity* record, a *contact* record, and an *account* record are created. The dual-write infrastructure is used to write the contact and the account records to Commerce. The contact is created as a customer of the *person* type, and the company is created as a customer of the *organization* type. If a user selects **Close as Won** for the opportunity, the prospect is approved in Commerce. Approval of a prospect causes a customer hierarchy to be created.

All remaining business processes occur in Commerce. These processes include sending email to the business partner, defining credit limit management for the users, and adding more users to the B2B site. However, if a user disqualifies the lead or marks the opportunity as lost instead of qualifying the lead, the prospect in Commerce is marked as rejected, and a decline onboarding email is sent to the requester.

## Enable integration between Sales and Commerce

Integration between Sales and Commerce relies on the dual-write infrastructure. Therefore, dual-write should be enabled and working, so that customers that are created in one system are written to the other system. For more information about the dual-write infrastructure, see [Dual-write overview](/dynamics365/fin-ops-core/dev-itpro/data-entities/dual-write/dual-write-overview).

After you complete the dual-write setup, the implementation partner can go to [Microsoft Marketplace](https://marketplace.microsoft.com/) and search for the solution named [Dual-write Commerce solutions](https://partner.microsoft.com/dashboard/commercial-marketplace/offers/7ca1d8c9-dc79-4cb7-a82e-8dc96a25acca/overview). Install the package by using the standard installation wizard, and then test it by creating a prospect on a B2B site. After you create the prospect, verify that the request is shown on the **All prospects** in Commerce, and then verify that the prospect is shown as a lead in Sales.

## Additional resources

[Manage business partner users on B2B e-commerce websites](manage-b2b-users.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
