---
# required metadata

title: Customer prepayments
description: Customer pprepayments are used when you receive payment from a customer and you do not have an invoice to settle the payment against.
author: rachel.profitt
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 04/30/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: CustPosting, LedgerJournalTransCustPaym, CustParameters
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: roschlom
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 24651
ms.assetid: cb82245e-8c02-429c-b36e-8db0e3e6f7e5
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: raprofit
ms.search.validFrom: 
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.0

---

# Customer prepayments

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

Customer pprepayments are used when you receive payment from a customer and you do not have an invoice to settle the payment against. Sometimes they may be referred to as customer deposits. The customer prepayment setup and process consist of the following basic steps.

1. Create a prepayment **Customer posting profile**.
2. Define the **Posting profile with prepayment journal voucher** parameter.
3. Create a **Customer payment journal** and select the **Prepayment journal voucher** check box on each line.
4. Post the **Customer payment journal**.
5. Settle the prepayment with an invoice once the invoice is generated by using the **Settle open transactions** form.

## Customer posting profile for prepayments
Typically when you accept prepayments or depostis from your customers before goods or services are delivered or before an invoice exists in your system you will want to record the cash as a liability instead of an asset on your chart of accounts. Depending on your country or region there may be different requirements for recoridng these amounts in your general ledger, so be sure to check with your accountants for any local regulataions.

Generally, the process for creating a posting profile to be used for prepayments is the same as any other posting profile. The key difference is the main account that you select in the **Summary account** field.  Refer to [**Customer posting profiles**](customer-posting-profiles.md) for more information.

## Define parameters for customer prepayments
There are two main parameters to consider when configuring the system for customer prepayments. Use the following steps to configure the parameters.

1. On the Navigation pane click **Modules > Accounts receivable > Setup > Accounts receivable parameters**.
2. Click the **Ledger and sales tax** tab on the left pane.
3. Expand the **Payment** FastTab.
4. Optionally, select the **Sales tax on prepayment journal voucher** slider.
5. In the **Posting profile with prepayment journal voucher** field, select the customer posting profile that you want to use when you post a customer prepayment.
6. Close the page.

## Create customer prepayment vouchers
When you create the customer payment journal, for each prepayment, you must select the **Prepayment journal voucher** slider in the **Customer payment journal**. Follow these steps to create a customer prepayment.

1. On the Navigation pane click **Modules > Accounts receivable > Payments > Customer payment journal**.
2. Click **New** to create a new jouranl.
3. In the **Name** field, select the journal name you want to use.
4. Optionally, enter or update a detailed description in the **Description** field.
5. Click **Lines**. If required, click **New* to create a new line.
6. In the **Date** field, enter the date for posting the prepayment.
7. In the **Account** field, select the customer for the prepayment.
8. Opetionally, enter a detailed description for the transaction in the **Description** field.
9. In the **Credit** field, enter the amount of the prepayment.
10. In the **Offset account** field, select the account where the payment will offset to. For example, select the bank or main account to post the payment to.
11. In the **Method of payment** field, select the customer method for paying.
12. Click the **Payment** tab.
13. Select the **Prepayment journal voucher** slider.
14. Repeat steps 6-13 for each additional prepayment to post.
15. Click **Post** to finalize the journal.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you selected the **Sales tax on prepayment journal voucher** in the **Accounts receivable parameters** page, the **Name** that you select in step 3 must be a journal name where the **Amount includes sales tax** parameter is also selected. 

## Settle prepayments with invoices
You can use the **Customer payments** workspace to easily locate and settle payments that have not been fully settled.

1. click the **Customer payments** tile on the **Home** page.
2. In the **Customer transactions** section, click the **Payments not settled* tab.
3. Search and select the payment you want to settle.
4. Click **Settle transactions**.
5. Select the **Mark** check box for the invoice and the payment that you want to settle.
6. Click **Post**.

For more information about settling open transactions, refer to the [Settlement overview](/cash-bank-management/settlement-overview.md) page.
