---
title: Transparency note for Collections coordinator summary
description: This transparency note provides information about the AI technology used in Dynamics 365 Finance, along with key considerations and details about how the AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: 6/15/2023
ms.custom:  transparency-note
ms.topic: article
author: JodiChristiansen
ms.author: jchrist
ms.reviewer: twheeloc
---

# Transparency note for Collections coordinator summary

This transparency note describes the AI impact of Dynamics 365 Finance's Collections coordinator summary feature.

## What is Collections coordinator summary?

Collections coordinator summary is AI-generated text that displays on the Collections coordinator workspace and generates a reminder letter using AI-generated text. This feature uses your Dynamics 365 Finance 
data such as aged balances, overdue invoices, and payment history as input. The output is a summary of overdue amounts, overdue balances and payment history displayed on the workspace. The second output is an 
email that is generated by AI in the format of a collection letter.

## What are the system’s capabilities?

This feature is powered by Azure Open AIs large language model using the customer name and Dynamics 365 Finance data as input. The summary provides the collections coordinator with information on the payment
history and revenue. The AI-generated email can be sent to the customer to remind them of an overdue balance.

## What is the system’s intended use?

The intended uses are summarizing Dynamics 365 Finance customer data such as aged balances, overdue invoices, and payment history and creating a draft email based on this data in a reminder letter format.

## How was Collections coordinator summary evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

The AI-generated summary was evaluated based on the customer's existing Dynamics 365 Finance data such as aged balances, overdue invoices, and payment history. All calculations are performed in Dynamics 365 
Finance, not through Azure OpenAI. All emails are based on Dynamics 365 Finance data such as aged balances, overdue invoices, and payment history and verified against the same data in the testing process.

## What are the limitations of the Collections coordinator summary? How can users minimize the impact of the Collections coordinator summary limitations when using the system?

If the same customer exists in multiple legal entities in Dynamics 365 Finance, the data on the workspace is only returned based on the legal entity that the Collections coordinator is using. It may not give you 
the full picture of the customer's account across all entities.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system?

Processing of the customer's data such as aged balances, overdue invoices, and payment history, is configured using the prompt inside Dynamics 365 Finance and can't be changed or modified. The AI-generated
summary and email is created using the customer data such as aged balances, overdue invoices, and payment history, inside Dynamics 365 Finance. There is no text that can be entered by the end user and processed 
through Azure OpenAI. Only the customer's name and Finance data, such as aged balances, overdue invoices, and payment history, found in Finance, are processed through Azure OpenAI and returned as a summary or 
used to generate a draft email which you can edit before sending.

## See also

- [Feature page]([Link])

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
