---
# required metadata

title: Asset classification definitions
description: Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations, Retail and Talent provide a default set of classifications for the kinds of data that are stored in each table. These classifications are subject to change depending upon different needs to identify different kinds of data. 
author: ToddLefor
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 12/31/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-platform
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Developer
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: robinr
ms.search.scope: Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 10031
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: 
ms.search.validFrom: 2017-12-31
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.0

---

# Asset classification definitions

[!include[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations, Microsoft Dynamics 365 Retail and Microsoft Dynamics 365 Talent provide a default set of classifications for the kinds of data that are stored in each table. These classifications are subject to change depending on the need to identify different kinds of data. The actual classification for each field in each table may change at any time, depending on differing needs for identifying data.

Through customization, you can change the classification to meet your own classification and tracking needs.

**Customer Content** – Data collected and managed by the controller (some of it may be personal data).

**EUII** (End User Identifiable Information) – A natural value that may be used to identify a user of the service.

**EUPI** (End User Pseudonymous Information) – A generated value that may be used to identify the user of the service. 

**OII** (Organizational Identifiable Information) – A value that may be used to identify the organization using the service.

**System Metadata** – A value that describes the software or used by the software, typically generated by the software.

**Object Metadata** – A value that describes the software or used by the software, but may have been provided by the tenant or user of the software.

**Account data** – A value provided by or used by the tenant to identify the billing information or identify the software used by the tenant.

**Support data** – Information used to provide customer support.

