---
title: Primary forms for NVFA, working clothes, and special riggings (Russia)
description: Learn how to work with primary forms for NVFA, working clothes, and special riggings for Russia in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance.
author: evgenypopov
ms.author: evgenypopov
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
ms.date: 08/29/2025
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
ms.search.region: Russia
ms.search.validFrom: 2018-10-28
---

# Primary forms for NVFA, working clothes, and special riggings (Russia)

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

This article explains how to work with primary forms for not valuable fixed assets (NVFA), working clothes, and special riggings for Russia in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance.

## Generate the NVFA accounting card (No. MB-2) for NVFAs, special rigging, and working clothes 

Use the **NVFA accounting card (No. MB-2)** report to generate the accounting card for a group of working clothes, special rigging, or not valuable fixed assets (NVFAs). The accounting card is printed for each combination of the person who is in charge of the asset and the selected location of the asset. The report number that is generated is a combination of the department code and the employee identification code of the recipient.

To generate the NVFA accounting card (No. MB-2) for NVFAs, special rigging, and working clothes, follow these steps.

1. In Dynamics 365 Finance, go to **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Reports** \> **NVFA accounting card (No. MB-2)**.
1. In the **Report date** field, select the transaction date for the accounting card.
1. In the **Person in charge** field, select the employee who is in charge of the asset.
1. In the **Location** field, select the location of the asset.
1. Select the **Show only active** checkbox to show objects in exploitation only on the transaction date.
1. Select **OK** to generate the accounting card.

## Generate the NVFA statement of disposal (No. MB-4) from the Working clothes, Special rigging, or Not valuable FAs page list 

Use the **Working clothes**, **Special rigging**, or **Not valuable FAs** page list to print the NVFA Statement of disposal (No. MB-4). This report is generated by each department that uses working clothes, special rigging, and NVFAs.

To generate the NVFA statement of disposal (No. MB-4) from the **Working clothes**, **Special rigging**, or **Not valuable FAs** page list, follow these steps.

1. In Dynamics 365 Finance, go to **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Common** \> **Working clothes**.
    
   –or–
    
   Go to **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Common** \> **Special rigging**.
    
   –or–
    
   Go to **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Common** \> **Not valuable FAs**.

1. Highlight the fixed asset that has the status **Written off** or **Written off (sale)**.
1. Select **Documents** \> **NVFA Statement of disposal (No. MB-4)**.
1. In the **Rows** field, enter the reason for asset disposal.
1. Select **Print** to generate the statement of disposal.

## Generate the NVFA statement of writing-off (No. MB-8) from the Working clothes, Special rigging, or Not valuable FAs page list 

Use the **Working clothes**, **Special rigging**, or **Not valuable FAs** page list to print the NVFA Statement of writting-off (No. MB-4). This report is generated by each department that uses working clothes, special rigging, and not valuable fixed assets (NVFAs).

To generate the NVFA statement of writing-off (No. MB-8) from the **Working clothes**, **Special rigging**, or **Not valuable FAs** page list, follow these steps.

1. In Dynamics 365 Finance, go to **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Common** \> **Working clothes**.
    
   –or–
    
   Go to **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Common** \> **Special rigging**.
    
   –or–
    
   Go to **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Common** \> **Not valuable FAs**.

1. Highlight the fixed asset that has a status of **Written off** or **Written off (sale)**.
1. Select **Documents** \>**NVFA Statement of writing-off (No. MB-8)**.
1. In the **Order number** field, enter the order number that the disposal transaction is posted under.
1. In the **Resolution date** field, select the order date.
1. Select the **Officials** tab. The details of the assigned officials are displayed. You can modify the employee details if changes are required.
1. Select **Print** to generate the NVFA statement of writing-off (No. MB-8).


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
