---
# required metadata

title: Maintenance availability check for work orders
description: This article describes how supervisors can conduct a material availability check on maintenance work orders.
author: johanhoffmann
ms.date: 08/28/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: johanho
ms.search.validFrom: 2019-09-30
ms.dyn365.ops.version: 10.0.5

---

# Material availability check for work orders

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

Supervisors can make a material availability check on work orders. This process is relevant for organizations that want to check if the required spare parts are available before workers start maintenance work. Consider following scenario: A supervisor is responsible for all corrective maintenance on a manufacturing site. As a standard procedure, the supervisor will check if all required material for the work orders are available before releasing them to the maintenance workers for processing.

## How does the material availability check work?

The material availability check for work orders is using the standard master planning run to calculate the inventory availability of required material. A material demand for a work order, is generated by a journal line in project item journal related to a work order. A journal line can be created or copied from the work orders item forecast. You can read more about how to use maintenance forecasts here [Maintenance forecasts](maintenance-forecasts.md).

The material availability check is performed in a separate page for a selected range of work orders. From this page, the supervisor can run the master plan and when doing so, that material availability for each of the selected work orders is immediately indicated. In the page, the supervisor is also provided with information about material availability for the individual spare parts required for the selected work orders.

## Check material availability for work orders

This procedure shows how a supervisor can work with the material availability check

1. Go to **Asset management** > **Work orders** > **All work orders** 

1. Use the filter field to select the range of work orders you with to check for material availability

1. Select **Material availability check** in the action pane to open the material availability page.

[!NOTE] The **Material availability check** page is divided in two sections. The upper section shows the work orders. The lower section shows journal lines relating each work order. 

1. Select the first work order in the upper grid. Validate if the order has a checkmark in the column **journal lines**. If the work order doesn't have any journal lines, you can choose one of the following methods to do create them:
 
    - **Create the journal lines from a forecast**
        1. Select a work order in the upper section, and select **Forecast** from the toolbar to open the **Work order maintenance forecast** page. Open the **Items** FastTab and check if there are any item forecast lines for the order. If there are no lines, you can add them by selecting **Add**, **Add spare parts** or **Add BOM items** from the toolbar.
        > [!TIP] 
        > You can setup the system to automatically generate item forecast lines on the work order by setting up default forecasts in the **Maintenance job type defaults** page.
        1. Close the **Work order maintenance forecast** page to return to the **Work order material availability check** page.
        1. Select **Copy journals from forecast** from the toolbar to open the **Copy from forecast** dialog and set the **Item** field to **Yes**
        1. Select **OK** in the dialog.
        1. Verify that the work order now has a journal line, by checking there is a checkmark in the column **Journal lines created**
    - **Create the journal from the **Work order journals** page**
        1. Select a work order in the upper section, and select **Journals** to open the **Work order journals** page. 
        1. In the **Items** FastTab add a line in the grid.

1. After you have verified that the work order has journal lines, run the material availability check by selecting **Material availability check** from the toolbar.

> [!NOTE]
> You can mulit-select work orders for the material availability check.


1.  The **Material availability check** dialog opens. Make the following settings:

    - **Run mode** - Select the type of check you want to conduct. Choose between the two values:
        - *Master planning + Availability check* - The check will first run master planning for the products relating to the work orders, and then based on the master planning result, run a material availability check for the orders. The result of the check is used to indicate for the supervisor if material are fully available or not or only partly available for the orders. 
        - *Availability check only* - The check is run based on the data from the latest version of the master planning.
    - **Plan** - Select which named master plan should be used when running master planning. Normally the master plan representing the dynamics master plan will be used.

    > [!TIP] 
    > For this procedure, choose the value *Master planning + Availability check*

1. Select **OK** to run the check

1. in the upper section of the **Work order material availability** page, verify the material availability status of the work order by the icon shown in the **Ready to be released** field. The icons used have the following description:

    :::image type="content" source="media/MatAvail - unknown.png" alt-text=""::: test test
    - The check cannot be conducted for this work order, because there is not material demand. Make sure there is a journal line for the order.

    :::image type="icon" source="media/MatAvail - checkmark.png" border="false":::
    - The check has been conduced and all materials for the work order are fully available
    
    :::image type="icon" source="media/MatAvail - Warning.png" border="false":::
    - Some of the materials or all of the materials for the work order are not available. 

1. In the lower section of the **Work order material availability** page, verify the material availability status of the each material for the work order by the icon shown in the **Material availability** field. The icons used have the following description:

    :::image type="icon" source="media/MatAvail - checkmark.png" border="false":::
    - The check has been conduced and the material is fully available. In this status, the quantity in the **Requested quantity** field, which is the quantity requested by the work order, equals the quantity in the **On-hand settled** field.  
    
    :::image type="icon" source="media/MatAvail - Warning.png" border="false":::
    - The check has been conduced and the material is fully available. In this status, the **Requested quantity** is not fully covered by the **On-hand quantity**, but is instead covered by the **planned order quantity** or the **Ordered quantity** or a combination of those. 

>[!TIP]
>In the toolbar under the **Inventory** menu item, you can open the **Explosion** page to get more details about how the demand for the requested quantity is covered.

1. Use the **Material availability** field to filter on the work orders. You have the following options:
    - **All** - Show all work orders
    - **Upcoming** - Show work order where all materials are not available
    - **Available** - Only show work orders where all materials are available.

    For this procedure, select **Available** to show work orders where all material is available. The supervisor can now change the work order state on those work orders where all material is available. The new state can then indicate that the orders are ready to be worked on by maintenance workers.

1. Select **Update work order state** from the toolbar to open the **Update work order state** dialog. 
1. Select the next work order state for the selected work orders.
1. Select **OK** to confirm.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]