---
# required metadata

title: Rebate management module overview
description: This topic provides an overview of the Rebate management module for Supply Chain Management
author: sherry-zheng
manager: tfehr
ms.date: 02/19/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form:  [Operations AOT form name to tie this topic to]
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.scope:  Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: [used by loc for topics migrated from the wiki]
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: [leave blank for most, retail, public sector]
ms.author: chuzheng
ms.search.validFrom: 2021-02-19
ms.dyn365.ops.version: Release 10.0.18
---

# Rebate management module overview

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

Use the Rebate management module to create contracts, deals, or agreements between your business and its customers or vendors for the purpose of calculating rebates, deductions, and royalties. The Rebate management module tracks and maintains rebate and deduction transactions in a central location where users can create, review and process them effectively.

The Rebate management module supports creation, maintenance, and processing of rebates, or the return of a portion of a purchase price by a seller or a buyer, typically based on the purchase of a specific quantity or value of goods within a specific period. These returns, unlike discounts, are done after the full invoice of the purchase amount.

Also supported are deductions. A deduction is a compensation, consideration or fee paid for a license or privilege to use intellectual property such as a brand, copyright, or patent, or the privilege to use a natural resource such as for fishing, hunting, or mining. Deductions are usually computed as a percentage of revenue or profit from realized use. The more use, the greater the deduction realized.

Customer royalties are also supported. Royalties are payments made by one party to the licensee or franchisee for the right for use of the asset. Rebates, royalties, and deductions are all supported by the new Rebate management module.

With the Rebate management module, posting profiles can be defined for provision, rebate, and write-off. The postings can additionally be specified for a particular customer or vendor, as not all deals may apply to all customer or vendor scenarios and can be tracked accordingly via postings. Rebate transactions are automatically generated based on the calculation method selected and scheduled into batch jobs. Additionally, workflows can be set to manage, review, and approve agreements.

## Basis calculation differentiation

Customer rebates, royalties, and vendor rebates can all utilize a different basis based on your business requirements. Customer rebates can be based on sales orders, delivery notes, or invoices. Customer royalties can be based on sales orders, delivery notes, or paid invoices as well. Vendor rebates can be based on either purchase or sales orders. The vendor rebate can be calculated based on products purchased from the rebate vendor and sold to customers via sales invoices.

## Calculations are flexible

Rebate calculation periods are available for both customer and vendor deals. A calculation period defines the length of the deal, the frequency, and calculation period. The rebates can be accrued based on the sales order quantities or amounts for qualified products within the rebate period.

For each agreement calculation, periods can be set to:

- Invoice
- Day
- Week
- Month
- Quarter
- Year
- Customized period
- Any multiples thereof

The calculation can be applied to individual, groups of, or all customers and products. Rebates having multiple detail lines can have different qualifying date ranges. The provision and claim periods can differ, for example process provision daily and claims once a month.

Rebates can be configured based on many diverse parameters such as percentage (%), rate or fixed amount. There are four core methods of calculation including:

- Stepped
- Cumulative
- Rolling
- Total value

Rebate calculations can be reduced by other rebates as well, depending on whether the rebate is set to calculate on the net amount or not.

On the vendor side, rebates can calculate the price basis to FIFO, latest purchase price, average purchase price, or sales price.

## Rebate target transactions

The output generated by the rebate deal or agreement could be a financial or item.

For a financial output, the outputs are determined by the posting profile's payment type assigned to the agreement. These can include customer deduction journals, free text invoices or vendor invoices. For audit purposes, financial rebate target transactions will include a reference back to the originating rebate agreement.

Item rebate outputs create a free item sales order for customer rebates and a purchase order for vendor rebates. Item rebate target transactions contain options to determine which rebate reference to populate on the free item sales or purchase order.

## Accurate rebate calculations

Rebates calculations can be made accurately and precisely based on the combinate of the deals associated, the frequency of the calculations, the calculation basis, and the calculation method selected. Rebate provisions can additionally be used to accrue posted and claimed values. Provisions can be managed daily or monthly, but the facility can allocate/pay or receive payment of the rebate at any defined frequency. The user can easily adjust a plan or payment amounts at any time during the payout.

Users no longer need to double handle a deal or provision. Provisions and write offs post directly into the ledger. Additionally, credit notes can be automatically created. This gives a complete integration into accounts payable and receivable. These calculations consider settlement discounts, paid invoices, trade discounts, and existing credit notes while processing, which ensures total accuracy in the amounts and values calculated.

When rebates are calculated, the process creates transactions which can be reviewed before posting. From there, a journal, credit note, or debit transaction can be created. A separate process posts rebate and deduction transactions. Reporting statements and transaction listings can be obtained to ensure compliance, effectiveness, and transparency.

## Guaranteed royalty payments

With the Rebate management module, royalties are handled quickly and easily with automatic payment generation, including where guaranteed minimums apply.

## Maximize spend versus rebates

Vendors and/or products can additionally be grouped by territory, and different offers can be provided based on the geography of the transaction. At the time of product selection, users can define what items are included and how many items will be used in the rebate settlement.
