---
# required metadata

title: Partial shipment of a transport load
description: This topic explains how you can partially ship a load and postpone the planning of capacity for the load.
author: Mirzaab
ms.date: 03/15/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: WHSTransportLoad
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 1705903
ms.assetid: 427e01b3-4968-4cff-9b85-1717530f72e4
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: mirzaab
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-02-28
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 8.0.0
---

# Partial shipment of a transport load

[!include[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

By setting up partial shipment of loads, you can handle loads where the capacity can't be determined until all the sales lines have been added to a load. The process can then be finalized when the exact pallet count is known. Therefore, you don't have to decide which pallets will be assigned to which transport until the moment when a transport is being physically loaded out of the staged inventory.

This feature offers an alternative to the enforcement of a more rigid structure, where you must determine which pallets will be assigned to which transport before picking work or loading work can be created. Instead, users can configure individual loads for a partial shipment confirmation. The transport loading processes for those loads can then occur. Therefore, the transportation planning department can plan loads without having to consider the capacity of individual transports.

At the time of loading, workers can define a new transport load that a pallet can be loaded to. Alternatively, they can identify an existing transport load. This data can be recorded via a mobile device. Therefore, several warehouse workers can load inventory from the same loads or different loads onto the same truck. The loads can then be fully or partially shipped.

> [!NOTE] 
> In order to load inventory from a load to a specific transport load and partially ship the load, work must be generated by using a loading class in a work template. Ordinary picking work of the **Picking** type can't be loaded to a transport load such as a truck.

## Set up transport loads for partial shipment

The setup for partial shipment of loads consists of the following two procedures.

### Set the loading strategy

You must enable partial loading by setting the loading strategy. You can set the loading strategy after you've created a load.

1. Select **Warehouse management** \> **Loads** \> **All loads**.
2. Select a load, and then click **Header**.
3. In the **Loading strategy** field, select **Partial load shipping allowed**.

### Create a menu item for loading of transport loads

You must create a new menu item that enables transport loads to be loaded. A transport load lets you group work lines from one load or multiple loads. Everything that is added to the transport load can then be shipped by using a mobile scanner.

1. Select **Warehouse management** \> **Setup** \> **Mobile device** \> **Mobile device menu items**.
2. Select **New**, and then, in the **Mode** field, select **Work**.
3. Set the **Use existing work** option to **Yes**.
4. On the **General** tab, in the **Directed by** field, select **Transport loading**.
5. To enable shipment confirmation on a mobile scanner, in the **Allowed ship confirmation type** field, select **Transport load**.

## Confirm shipment of a transport load from the client

This setup lets you confirm a transport load that includes a full load or a partially loaded load to be shipped.

1. Select **Warehouse management** \> **Loads** \> **Transport loads**.
2. On the Action Pane, on the **Ship and receive** tab, in the **Confirm** group, select **Transport**.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]