---

# required metadata

title: Reprint and void wave labels
description: This topic provides an overview of functionality that enables voiding and reprinting of existing wave labels.
author: GarmMSFT
manager: PJacobse
ms.date: 01/31/2020
ms.topic: reprint-and-void-wave-labels
# ms.prod:
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
# ms.technology:

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: WHSWaveLabel, WHSWaveLabelTemplate
# ROBOTS:
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang:
ms.reviewer: PJacobse
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm:
# ms.custom:
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: [leave blank for most, retail, public sector]
ms.author: v-olbara
ms.search.validFrom: yyyy-mm-dd
ms.dyn365.ops.version: 10.0.2

---

# Reprint and void wave labels

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

_Released in version 10.0.0, upgraded in version 10.0.2_

## About

This functionality offers additional scenarios on managing labels generated by wave processing (see [Configure wave label printing](../warehousing/configure-wave-label-printing.md) for detailed description and configuration instructions). The wave labels can be reprinted at will later in the process (in case of damage or loss of labels printed on wave processing). There might be also a few scenarios when, due to inventory shortage or other reasons, the number and/or composition of wave labels changed, and the warehouse worker or supervisor might want to reprint the entire label roll with updated details (even if only the number of cartons changed, usually, the entire roll has to be reprinted to keep the total number accurate (in the "Carton X of Y" section)).

The feature introduces **Reprint wave labels** functionality both in warehouse mobile app flows and in web client as well as additions to short pick flow:
- Support for reprint of labels (from handhelds and from rich client)
- Support for voiding of labels (a.o. for short pick scenarios) and reprint
- Support for clean-up of wave label history

## Scenario 1. Reprint in web client

Wave labels can be viewed and re-printed from the following forms (**Related information** field group in the ribbon):
-	**All shipments/Shipment details**
-	**All loads**/**Load details**
-	**All waves**
-	**Wave labels**
-	**Wave label history**

### Process

1. Go to **Warehouse management** \>
1. Click
1. Select
1. Click **OK** to confirm your selection.

## Scenario 2. Reprint of a specific label sequence on warehouse mobile app due to label roll being lost or damaged

### Setup

### Process

## Scenario 3. Short pick

For this scenario, you must have demo data installed, and you must use the **USMF** demo data company. It also assumes that you went through configuration and processing of wave template with wave label printing step (referenced above).

### Setup

#### Work exceptions

Work exceptions control the behavior of short pick.

1. Go to **Warehouse management** \> **Setup** \> **Work** \> **Work exceptions** and check if **waveLabelPrinting**.
1. Create a new record with **Exception type** set to **Short pick**.
1. Enable the **Suggest wave labels reprint** checkbox on this record.

### Process

1. Open a work processing flow on a mobile device for **Sales order** work created when wave labels were printed initially.
1. Click on the **Short pick** button
1. Select the exception created above.
1. Void and reprint checkbox will be available if the correct exception is selected.
1. When confirmed, the label roll sequence (identified by Label build ID) will be recalculated based on changed work line quantity, as well as reprinted to the specified printer.
