---
title: Workload insights with Copilot in the Warehouse Management mobile app
description: The Warehouse Management mobile app can show AI-generated insights to warehouse workers to help them better plan their shift.
author: Mirzaab
ms.author: mirzaab
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.form:
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 08/19/2024
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
---

# Workload insights with Copilot in the Warehouse Management mobile app

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

The Warehouse Management mobile app provides a *workload* page that shows work summaries and AI-generated insights to help warehouse workers better plan their shift. The information shown can include the following details:

- The number of pick and receive work headers or work lines.
- The number of active warehouse mobile app sessions in the warehouse.
- Insights into the available work types.
- The current workload, displayed either as work headers or work lines.
- Details of available work per work type.
- Additional information about available work, described in natural language generated by Copilot.

Workers can use these insights to get an overview of their workday and optimize the way they engage with their daily tasks. Detailed information about available tasks enhances operational efficiency, reduces time spent on information retrieval, and optimizes resource allocation across the warehouse floor.

The workload page offers insights into relevant warehouse operations, such as the number of active warehouse mobile sessions working in the same warehouse. This fosters a more connected and efficient workplace by promoting awareness and coordination among workers.

When workers first open the workload page, they're shown an overview of unstarted tasks scheduled for the current warehouse, together with a natural-language summary generated by Copilot. The following illustration shows how it looks. First, the app shows an overview (left). Workers can then tap any of the tiles to see detailed information about open work by type, which lets them quickly grasp their day's objectives (right). Select the check-mark button to close the workload page and open the **Main menu**.

:::image type="content" source="media/wma-insights-worklines.png" alt-text="Initial and detailed views of un-started work lines scheduled for the current warehouse" lightbox="media/wma-insights-worklines.png":::

## Prerequisites

To get workload insights with Copilot in the Warehouse Management mobile app, your system must meet the following requirements:

- You must be running Microsoft Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management version 10.0.39 or later.
- You must be running Warehouse Management mobile app version 2.3.2.0 or later.

## Worker preferences and options

### Choose whether to show the workload page on sign-in

Workers can choose whether or not to see the workload page each time they sign in to the app. To set this preference, follow these steps:

1. From the **Main menu**, open the **Settings** menu.
1. Select the **Show copilot on startup** entry.

    :::image type="content" source="media/wma-insights-startup.png" alt-text="The Show copilot on startup entry in the Settings menu" lightbox="media/wma-insights-startup.png":::

1. Choose one of the following options:
   - *Yes*: Display the workload page each time you sign in (default setting).
   - *No*: Go straight to the **Main menu**, without displaying workload page, each time you sign in.

### Choose whether to show workload data as headers or lines

Depending on how workers prefer to think about their daily workload, they can choose whether to see summaries based on work headers or work lines. For example, if all of your orders typically contain just a few items, workers might prefer to think about their work in terms of whole orders (headers). But if quantities vary greatly from order to order, workers might prefer to think about their work in terms of individual items (lines).

To choose whether to show workload data as headers or lines, follow these steps:

1. From the **Main menu**, open the **Settings** menu.
1. Select the **Show copilot data as** entry.

    :::image type="content" source="media/wma-insights-data-option.png" alt-text="The Show copilot data as entry in the Settings menu" lightbox="media/wma-insights-data-option.png":::

1. Choose one of the following options:
   - *Work lines*: Display the workload data as lines (default setting).
   - *Work headers*: Display the workload data as headers.

## Open the workload page

Regardless of whether a worker chooses to see the workload page at sign-in, they can also choose to open the workload page at any time by following these steps:

1. Open the **Main menu**.
1. Select the **Workload** button at the top of the screen.

    :::image type="content" source="media/wma-insights-workload-button.png" alt-text="The workload button at the top of the Main menu" lightbox="media/wma-insights-workload-button.png":::
