---
title: Warehouse mobile device tracking dimensions picking behavior
description: Learn how the warehouse mobile device picking flows behave when interacting with items with tracking dimensions and license plates.
author: ivanma
ms.author: ivanma
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 02/13/2025
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.form: WHSRFMenuItemTable, WHSRFMenuItemLine
---

# Warehouse mobile device tracking dimensions and license plate picking behavior

One of the ideas behind the Warehouse mobile device picking flows is to reduce the number of scans or typing required of the worker. Because of that, some fields on the mobile device might get pre-populated value or be entirely skipped.

This article will try to explain some of these cases. Note that there might be differences depending on which warehouse mobile device flow is used and how the on-hand inventory looks like exacty in terms of the license plates and tracking dimensions combinations.

## Picking and target license plates

Whenever an item is picked as part of the warehouse work pick line, the inventory is moved to the user location. The user location must always be license plate tracked. The behavior of the system can be influenced by several things. For example, is the picking location license plate tracked, does the used mobile device menu item have **Generate license plate** or **Override target license plate** enabled, etc. Once the target license plate has been chosen, in general it cannot be changed and will continue to be used for all the subsequent pick work lines inside the same work. The entered target license plate doesn't need to exists in the system before it is used here. If the relevant record didn't exist before, then it will be created by the system. An existing license plate can be used as a target license plate, but it is a requirement that it doesn't have any on-hand inventory on it, as it is not allowed to have the same license plate with on-hand inventory on two different warehouse locations.

If the picking is performed from a location that is not license plate tracked, then the user will be asked to enter the target license plate. This target license plate can also be automatically generated by the system if the used mobile device menu item has **Generate license plate** enabled. In that case, the user will be asked to confirm the target license plate, but it can still be changed by the user. The **Override target license plate** setting is not used in this case.

If the picking is performed from a location that is license plate tracked, then the behavior depends on how much of the total license plate quantity is picked.
If all of the quantity from the license plate is picked, then that license plate will automatically be used as the target license plate, and the user will not be asked to enter nor confirm the target license plate. This behavior can be changed by the **Override target license plate** setting on the used mobile device menu item. If that setting is enabled, then the user will be given the opportunity to change the target license plate. The **Generate license plate** setting is not used in this case.
If only a part of the quantity from the license plate is picked, then a different target license plate is needed. This case is basically the same as the one when the picking is performed from a location that is not license plate tracked.

## Tracking dimensions (batch number and serial number)

When the item has tracking dimensions enabled (batch number or serial number), it is required to know exactly which particular batch or serial number is picked by the user. That is regardless of the reservation hierarchy used. For the batch number that is always true, but for the serial number it can depend on the **Capture serial number** setting on the item's **Tracking dimension group**. If the field is set to *Picking*, the serial number must be captured during the picking process with the mobile device, even though blank receipt and issue are allowed. If the field is set to *Packing*, the serial number must be captured in the manual packing station process, and the user will not be asked to enter the serial number during the picking. If the field is set to *None*, which is the default setting, the system will behave in the standard way, which will be described below. There is another special case for serial numbers, when **Active in sales process** is enabled. In that case, the serial number is not saved in the inventory transactions, but in a separate table, but that behavior is similar to the *Picking* and *Packing* ones described above.

The following behavior is the standard behavior, and currently there is no way to change it through setup. The behavior is the same for both batch and serial numbers (if the serial number doesn't have **Active in sales process** enabled and **Capture serial number** is set to *None*). If the whole quantity from a location or license plate is picked, then the user will not be asked to enter the batch or serial numbers, regardless of how match batch or serial numbers are available on-hand. As mentioned in the beginning, the reason is to reduce the number of interactions required from the user on the mobile device. In case the user is required to pick for less than what is available on the location or license plate, then user will then be asked to enter which exact batch and/or serial number is picked, as the system cannot automatically determine which one will the user actually pick.