---
# required metadata

title: Warehouse app events
description: This article describes the warehouse app event processing used to process warehouse app event messages as part of a batch job.
author: perlynne
ms.date: 09/02/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: WHSMobileDeviceQueueEvent 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: 
# ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: perlynne
ms.search.validFrom: 2020-10-09
ms.dyn365.ops.version: 10.0.15

---

# Warehouse app event processing

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

Batch jobs running in Supply Chain Management can use data from a queue for processing events issued by the Warehouse Management mobile app to react as needed to the signaled events. This feature add relevant events to the queue in response to certain types of actions taken by workers using the app. An example is when using the *Create and process transfer orders from the warehouse app* feature, the transfer order header and lines get created and updated in the back end when the system is running the **Process warehouse app events** batch job.

## Turn the Process warehouse app events feature on or off

As of Supply Chain Management version 10.0.25, this feature is turned on by default. As of Supply Chain Management version 10.0.29, this feature is mandatory. Therefore, it's turned on by default and can't be turned off again. If you're running a version that is older than 10.0.29, admins can turn this functionality on or off by searching for the *Process warehouse app events* feature in the [Feature management](../../fin-ops-core/fin-ops/get-started/feature-management/feature-management-overview.md) workspace.

## Set up a batch job to process warehouse app events

### Process warehouse app events

Set up a scheduled batch job to process the warehouse app events for the transfer order creation and line updates.

1. Go to **Warehouse management \> Periodic tasks \> Process warehouse app events**.
1. The Process warehouse app events dialog box opens. Expand the **Run in background** FastTab and set **Batch processing** to **Yes**.
1. On the **Run in the background** FastTab, select **Recurrence**.
1. The **Define recurrence** dialog box opens. Set the run schedule as needed for your business.
1. Select **OK** to return to the **Process warehouse app events** dialog box.
1. Select **OK** in the **Process warehouse app events** dialog box to add the batch job to the batch queue.

## Query warehouse app events

You can view the event queue and events messages generated by the Warehouse Management mobile app by going to **Warehouse management \> Enquiries and reports \> Mobile device logs \> Warehouse app events**.

## The standard event queue process

The warehouse app events queue will typically be used with the following described flow:

1. An event gets added to the queue  with an event message. The new message initially has an Event state of **Waiting**, which means that the **Process warehouse app events** batch job will not pick up and process this message.
1. As soon as the message state is updated to **Queued**, the **Process warehouse app** events batch job will pick up and process the event.
1. The batch job updates the event states to either **Completed** or **Failed**, depending on whether the requested process was possible.
1. When all the related event messages are **Completed**, the event is deleted from the queue.

 For a detailed example, see [Create transfer order from warehouse app process](create-transfer-order-from-warehouse-app.md).

## Handle event errors

As part of the warehouse event processing, the requested message activity may not receive processes from the batch job. In this case, the event message will change to **Failed**. You can use the **Batch log** information to learn why and take needed action to correct any problems.

For a detailed example, see [Create transfer order from warehouse app](create-transfer-order-from-warehouse-app.md).

To reset a failed warehouse app event message:

1. Go to **Warehouse management \> Enquiries and reports \> Mobile device logs \> Warehouse app events**.
1. On the **Warehouse app event messages** FastTab, find and select a relevant event that is showing **Failed** in the **Event state** column.
1. Select **Reset** from the **Warehouse app event messages** toolbar.
1. Continue working until all relevant messages are reset.

You can also remove a **Failed** event message by using the **Delete** option on the **Warehouse app event messages** toolbar.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
