---
title: Transparency notes for Copilot for procurement
description: This transparency note provides information about the AI technology used in Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management, along with key considerations and details about how the AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
author: kamaybac
ms.date: 06/15/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.search.form:
audience: Application User
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.region: Global
ms.author: kamaybac
ms.search.validFrom: 2023-06-15
ms.dyn365.ops.version: 10.0.34
---

This transparency note describes the AI impact of Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management's Copilot for procurement feature.

## What is the Copilot for procurement?

Copilot for procurement intends to support procurement managers to manage the daily tasks in the procurement process efficiently and effectively with th ehelp of AI driven features.
  
In the preview release Copilot for procurement comes with the workspace "Confirmed purchase orders with changes". The workspace offers an efficient way to identify and reconfirm changes with a low and high risk of downstream impact. This allows procurement managers to reconfirm low impact changes fast and focus on impactful changes, communicate directly with vendors, and assess potential downstream order impacts.

The system takes as input the changes to confirmed purchase orders and identifies the downstream orders. It then  outputs a summary of changes in natural language. The system can also output a draft for an email to the vendor or the draft for a message to the vendor contact in a Microsoft teams conversation.

## What are the system’s capabilities?

The system summarizes changes to purchase orders such as changed quantities and confirmed delivery dates. It uses the generative AI model Text-davinci-003 to generate a summary of the changes in natural language as well as content for email and Teams conversation.  

## What is the system’s intended use?

With the workspace "Confirmed purchase orders with changes", Copilot for procurement helps procurement professional to efficient review and reconfirm changes to purchase orders.

Text generated by purchase order change review workspace isn't intended to be used without manual review or supervision.

## How was the Copilot for procurement evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

Copilot for procurement underwent substantial testing before the feature was released. Copilot for procurement relies on user feedback to report inappropriate content.

If you encounter inappropriate content being generated, report it to Microsoft using this feedback form: [Report abuse](https://msrc.microsoft.com/report/abuse?ThreatType=URL&IncidentType=Responsible%20AI&SourceUrl=https://dynamics.microsoft.com/supply-chain-management/overview/). Your feedback helps improve the functionality moving forward.

Microsoft may disable the Copilot for procurement feature for selected customers if abuse of the functionality is detected.

## What are the limitations of the Copilot for procurement? How can users minimize the impact of the Copilot for procurement limitations when using the system?

The workspace "Confirmed purchase orders with changes" uses AI models to generate a summarization of identified impact and generates proposed communication content.

The generated content is not intended to be used without manual review or supervision.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system?

1. Always review generated summaries and study the detailed lists of changes and impacts before making decisions on reconfirming purchase orders.

1. Always review generated communication drafts before sending the email or  posting the Teams message. 

## See also

- [Feature page]([Link])

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
