---
# required metadata

title: Configuration steps for Retail developers working on Cloud-hosted dev boxes
description: 
author: mugunthanm 
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 10/12/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-365-retail
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Developer
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: robinr
ms.search.scope: Retail, Operations 
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: global
ms.search.industry: Retail
ms.author: 
ms.search.validFrom: 2017-06-30 
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.0, Retail July 2017 update


---
# Configuration steps for Retail developers working on Cloud-hosted dev boxes

1. All the developer cloud VMs will not have admin access to the VMs.
2. MPOS development will not be possible in this VM, you have to use cloud POS.
3. Before starting the development for any retail application, open the visual studio and click the Application Explorer from the view menu. Wait for 15 seconds this will strat the IIS Express with all the retail websites deployed. You should see a IIS tray icon in the task bar with all the retail websites like cloud POS, retail server running.
4. To debug CRT/RS extensions attach the CRT/RS project to the IISExpress process.
5. When you open the cloud POS project from the Retail SDK you may get the Configuration IIS Express failed with the following error: 

        Filename: redirection.config
        Error: Cannot read configuration file
        
    To mitigate this issue, follow the below steps:
    
      I.	Close Visual Studio.

      II.	Rename the %userprofile%\Documents\IISExpress\config directory.

      III.Start Visual Studio again with the cloud POS project. The %userprofile%\Documents\IISExpress\config directory will be                     recreated with the default config files.

      IV.	Copy the original applicationhost.config file over the autogenerated one from the directory previously you renamed.

