articles/commerce/dev-itpro/pos-extension/migrate-mpos-store-commerce.md, before:

---
title: Migrate Modern POS to Store Commerce
description: This article explains how to migrate from Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Modern POS (MPOS) to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Store Commerce app.
author: josaw1
ms.date: 06/01/2022
ms.topic: overview
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 
audience: Developer
ms.reviewer: v-chgriffin
ms.search.region: Global
ms.author: josaw
ms.search.validFrom: 2022-05-24
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 10.0.25
---

# Migrate Modern POS to Store Commerce

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

This article explains how to migrate from Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Modern POS (MPOS) to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Store Commerce app. The Store Commerce app offers all the functionality of Modern POS, including integrated hardware support and offline mode.

For more information about Store Commerce app, see [Store Commerce app](../store-commerce.md).

## Setup and configuration differences between MPOS and Store Commerce

| Features | Store Commerce | MPOS |
| ------ | ------ |------ |
| System requirements | Windows 11, Windows 10 (Pro, Enterprise, Enterprise LTSC, and IoT Enterprise editions) with the latest available updates, or Windows Server 2019 | Windows 11, Windows 10 (Pro, Enterprise, Enterprise LTSC, and IoT Enterprise editions) with the latest available updates, or Windows Server 2019 |
| Offline | Yes. SQL Express, SQL Standard, and SQL Enterprise are supported. | Yes. SQL Express, SQL Standard, and SQL Enterprise are supported. |
| Local or Dedicated HWS support | Yes | Yes | 
| Device setup in Dynamics 365 Commerce headquarters | On the **Devices** page in Commerce headquarters, use the application as Store Commerce. | On the **Devices** page in Commerce headquarters, use the application as Retail Modern POS. |
| Device activation | Required | Required |
| Installer | Download from the [Shared asset library in Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services (LCS)](https://lcs.dynamics.com/V2/SharedAssetLibrary). On the **Shared asset library** page, select **Retail Self-service package** as the asset type, and then find the file that ends with **Store Commerce**. | Download from the [LCS Shared asset library](https://lcs.dynamics.com/V2/SharedAssetLibrary). On the **Shared asset library** page, select **Retail Self-service package** as the asset type, and then find the file that ends with **Modern POS (SEALED)**. |
| Extensions | [Commerce SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/Dynamics365Commerce.InStore) | [Retail SDK](../retail-sdk/retail-sdk-overview.md) for non-sealed MPOS and [Commerce SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/Dynamics365Commerce.InStore) for sealed MPOS |
 
## Migrate to the Store Commerce app from MPOS

1. Synchronize all your transaction and custom data from the channel database to Commerce headquarters. This data includes any offline transaction and custom data.
1. Post all the statements to Commerce headquarters, and ensure that there are no pending transactions to synchronize or post.
1. [Create a new device in Commerce headquarters](../../tasks/create-associate-device.md). Alternatively, to migrate an existing device, select the device and change the application type to **Store Commerce** on the **Devices** page in Commerce headquarters, and then run the **Registers** (**1070**) and **Channel configuration** (**1090**) jobs.
1. Uninstall MPOS. You don't have to uninstall the offline database.
1. Download the Store Commerce installer from the [LCS Shared asset library](https://lcs.dynamics.com/V2/SharedAssetLibrary). On the **Shared asset library** page, select **Retail Self-service package** as the asset type, and then find the file that ends with **Store Commerce**.
1. Install the Store Commerce app by passing the required parameters and related details. For information about setup and installation in offline mode, see [Store Commerce app](../store-commerce.md).

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you require offline mode, you can update the existing offline database by passing the correct SQL instance in the installer parameter. Alternatively, you can create a new offline database.

1. After the app is installed, open it from the **Start** menu in Windows, and activate it. For information about how to activate the app, see [Point of sale (POS) device activation](../retail-device-activation.md).
1. After the app is activated, sign in to it by using your employee credentials.

## Migrate extensions

For information about how to migrate extensions, see [Migrate a POS extension to the independent packaging model](migrate-pos-extension.md).

Commit message:

Updates to install parameters
Updated store commerce app install parameters to ensure that seamless upgrade was properly documented and missing params were included.

articles/commerce/dev-itpro/pos-extension/migrate-mpos-store-commerce.md, after:

---
title: Migrate Modern POS to Store Commerce
description: This article explains how to migrate from Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Modern POS (MPOS) to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Store Commerce app.
author: josaw1
ms.date: 06/01/2022
ms.topic: overview
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 
audience: Developer
ms.reviewer: v-chgriffin
ms.search.region: Global
ms.author: josaw
ms.search.validFrom: 2022-05-24
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 10.0.25
---

# Migrate Modern POS to Store Commerce

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

This article explains how to migrate from Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Modern POS (MPOS) to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce Store Commerce app. The Store Commerce app offers all the functionality of Modern POS, including integrated hardware support and offline mode.

For more information about Store Commerce app, see [Store Commerce app](../store-commerce.md).

## Setup and configuration differences between MPOS and Store Commerce

| Features | Store Commerce | MPOS |
| ------ | ------ |------ |
| System requirements | Windows 11, Windows 10 (Pro, Enterprise, Enterprise LTSC, and IoT Enterprise editions) with the latest available updates, or Windows Server 2019 | Windows 11, Windows 10 (Pro, Enterprise, Enterprise LTSC, and IoT Enterprise editions) with the latest available updates, or Windows Server 2019 |
| Offline | Yes. SQL Express, SQL Standard, and SQL Enterprise are supported. | Yes. SQL Express, SQL Standard, and SQL Enterprise are supported. |
| Local or Dedicated HWS support | Yes | Yes | 
| Device setup in Dynamics 365 Commerce headquarters | On the **Devices** page in Commerce headquarters, use the application as Store Commerce. | On the **Devices** page in Commerce headquarters, use the application as Retail Modern POS. |
| Device activation | Required | Required |
| Installer | Download from the [Shared asset library in Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services (LCS)](https://lcs.dynamics.com/V2/SharedAssetLibrary). On the **Shared asset library** page, select **Retail Self-service package** as the asset type, and then find the file that ends with **Store Commerce**. | Download from the [LCS Shared asset library](https://lcs.dynamics.com/V2/SharedAssetLibrary). On the **Shared asset library** page, select **Retail Self-service package** as the asset type, and then find the file that ends with **Modern POS (SEALED)**. |
| Extensions | [Commerce SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/Dynamics365Commerce.InStore) | [Retail SDK](../retail-sdk/retail-sdk-overview.md) for non-sealed MPOS and [Commerce SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/Dynamics365Commerce.InStore) for sealed MPOS |

## Migrate to the Store Commerce app from MPOS

1. Synchronize all your transaction and custom data from the channel database to Commerce headquarters. This data includes any offline transaction and custom data.
1. Post all the statements to Commerce headquarters, and ensure that there are no pending transactions to synchronize or post.
1. [Create a new device in Commerce headquarters](../../tasks/create-associate-device.md). Alternatively, to migrate an existing device, select the device and change the application type to **Store Commerce** on the **Devices** page in Commerce headquarters, and then run the **Registers** (**1070**) and **Channel configuration** (**1090**) jobs.
1. Uninstall MPOS. You don't have to uninstall the offline database.
1. Download the Store Commerce installer from the [LCS Shared asset library](https://lcs.dynamics.com/V2/SharedAssetLibrary). On the **Shared asset library** page, select **Retail Self-service package** as the asset type, and then find the file that ends with **Store Commerce**.
1. Install the Store Commerce app. See [Store Commerce app](../store-commerce.md) for a list of install parameters and related details.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Store Commerce supports seamless upgrade from Modern POS, which allows you to bypass activation of Store Commerce after installation. For more information, see the `--InPlaceUpgradeFromModernPOS`, `--SkipEnhancedModernPOSUpgradeValidation` and `--SkipUninstallModernPOSAfterUpgrade` install parameters in the [Store Commerce app](../store-commerce.md) help topic. 

1. After the app is installed, open it from the **Start** menu in Windows, and activate it. For information about how to activate the app, see [Point of sale (POS) device activation](../retail-device-activation.md).
1. After the app is activated, sign in to it by using your employee credentials.

## Migrate extensions

For information about how to migrate extensions, see [Migrate a POS extension to the independent packaging model](migrate-pos-extension.md).
