---
# required metadata

title: System requirements for cloud deployments
description: This topic lists the system requirements for the current version of Finance and Operations apps.
author: sericks007
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 09/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-platform
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Developer, IT Pro
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: sericks
ms.search.scope: Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 55651
ms.assetid: e564d51d-42d3-47c5-b388-93b8219c692a
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: sericks
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-08-30
ms.dyn365.ops.version: Platform update 8

---

# System requirements for cloud deployments

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

This topic lists the system requirements for the current version of Dynamics 365 Finance and Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management for cloud deployments. If this step is appropriate, before you install one of these apps, you should verify that the system that you're working with meets or exceeds the minimum network, hardware, and software requirements.

## Supported web browsers

The web application can run in any of the following web browsers that run on the specified operating systems:

- Microsoft Edge (latest publicly available version) on Windows 10
- Internet Explorer 11 on Windows 10, Windows 8.1, or Windows 7
- Google Chrome (latest publicly available version) 
- Apple Safari (latest publicly available version)

To find the latest release for each web browser, go to the software manufacturer's website.

> [!NOTE]
> - To enable Task Recorder to capture screenshots and include them in Microsoft Word documents that are generated, you must install a pre-release Chrome extension. <!---For instructions about how to install the extension, see [Screenshot Extension setup](../../dev-itpro/user-interface/task-recorder).-->
> - The Workflow Editor and Report Designer for Financial reporting are started as ClickOnce applications. They require a 64-bit-compatible operating system. Only Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer (on a supported version of Microsoft Windows) support ClickOnce applications out of the box. If you're using Chrome, you must install a ClickOnce extension, such as [Meta4](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/meta4-clickonce-launcher/jkncabbipkgbconhaajbapbhokpbgkdc) to use ClickOnce applications. If you use Chrome in incognito mode, make sure that the ClickOnce extension is also enabled for incognito mode.
> - To preview PDF files, we recommend that you use browsers such as Microsoft Edge (latest publicly available version) on Windows 10, or Google Chrome (latest publicly available version) on Windows 10, Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, or Google Nexus 10 tablet.

## Network requirements

- The app is designed for networks that have a latency of 250–300 milliseconds (ms) or less. This latency is the latency from a browser client to the Microsoft Azure datacenter that hosts the app. We recommend that you test network latency at [AzureSpeed.com](https://www.azurespeed.com).
- Bandwidth requirements for the app depend on your scenario. Most typical scenarios require a bandwidth that is more than 50 kilobytes per second (KBps). However, we recommend more bandwidth for scenarios that have high payload requirements, such as scenarios that involve workspaces or extensive customization.

In general, the app is optimized for the internet. The number of round trips from a browser client to the Azure datacenter is very small, and the whole payload is compressed.

> [!WARNING]
> Don't calculate bandwidth requirements from a client location by multiplying the number of users by the minimum bandwidth requirements. The concurrent usage of a given location is very difficult to calculate. Customers who are concerned about bandwidth requirements should use a preview version of the app.

## .NET Framework requirements

The app requires the Microsoft .NET Framework version 4.6.2 for all ClickOnce applications, such as the document routing agent. For installation instructions, see [Install the .NET Framework for developers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5a4x27ek(v=vs.110).aspx).

## Supported Microsoft Office applications

The following Microsoft Office applications are supported in cloud:

- To run the Microsoft Excel and Word add-ins, you must have Microsoft Office 2016 for Windows installed. For more information about version requirements, see [Troubleshoot the Office integration](../../dev-itpro/office-integration/office-integration-troubleshooting.md).
- To view documents that are generated by the Export to Excel or Export to Word functionality, you must have Microsoft Office 2007 or later installed.

## Requirements for development on local VMs

For information about the requirements for development on local virtual machines (VMs), see [VM that is running on-premises](../../dev-itpro/dev-tools/access-instances.md#vm-that-is-running-on-premises).

## Database collation

The only supported collation for application databases in the cloud is **SQL\_Latin1\_General\_CP1\_CI\_AS**. Please ensure that your SQL Server and database collations in development environments are set to this. Also ensure that any configuration environments that are published to Sandbox have this same collation.

## Additional resources

[Get evaluations copies](../../dev-itpro/dev-tools/get-evaluation-copy.md)
