---
title: Integrate with Microsoft Sustainability Manager
description: Learn how to integrate Microsoft Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management with Microsoft Sustainability Manager, including prerequisites.
author: lisascholz91
ms.author: lisascholz
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.form: TMSParameters, TMSMethod
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/31/2025
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
---

# Integrate with Microsoft Sustainability Manager

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

This article describes how to integrate Microsoft Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management with Microsoft Sustainability Manager. The integration lets you accurately calculate carbon emissions during rate and route planning in transportation management. Therefore, transportation planners can make informed decisions and strategically assign environmentally friendly transportation service providers to each load.

## Prerequisites

Before you can use the features that are described in this article, your system must meet the following requirements:

- You must be running Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management version 10.0.38 or later.
- You must have a valid subscription for Microsoft Sustainability Manager.
- You must be running Microsoft Sustainability Manager version 2.14.0.355 or later.
- The feature that's named *Integrate Microsoft Sustainability Manager with transportation management* must be turned on in [Feature management](../../fin-ops-core/fin-ops/get-started/feature-management/feature-management-overview.md). As of Supply Chain Management version 10.0.43, this feature is turned on by default.

## Enable impersonation in Microsoft Power Platform

To enable the two systems to communicate with each other, you must enable impersonation for Microsoft finance and operations apps in Microsoft Power Platform.

1. Sign in to [Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/).
1. On the left navigation pane, go to **Environment**, and then open the environment where you're running Microsoft Sustainability Manager.
1. On the toolbar, select **Settings**.
1. Expand **Product**, and select **Features**.
1. Under **Finance and Operations in Dataverse**, set the **Enable Finance and Operations User Impersonation in Dataverse** option to *On*.

    :::image type="content" source="media/enable-fno-impersonation.svg" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Enable Finance and Operations User Impersonation in Dataverse option set to On." lightbox="media/enable-fno-impersonation.svg":::

1. Save your changes.

## Map transportation modes in Supply Chain Management

To enable carbon emission calculations, you must map the transportation methods in Supply Chain Management to the transportation modes (vehicle types) in Microsoft Sustainability Manager.

1. Sign in to Supply Chain Management.
1. Go to **Transportation management** \> **Setup** \> **Carriers** \> **Transportation methods**.
1. For each transportation method that's listed on the page, use the **Transportation Mode in Microsoft Sustainability Manager** field to identify the matching transportation mode in Microsoft Sustainability Manager.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The transportation modes that are listed in the **Transportation Mode in Microsoft Sustainability Manager** field are taken from United States Environment Protection Agency Greenhouse Gas Emissions Factors Hub (EPA GHG Emissions Factors Hub). Microsoft Sustainability Manager uses these modes in its transportation and distribution calculation model. Learn more in [GHG Emissions Factors Hub](https://www.epa.gov/climateleadership/ghg-emission-factors-hub).

1. On the Action Pane, select **Save**.

## Validate the connection and enable the integration scenario

To complete the setup, you must validate the connection and enable the integration scenario.

1. In Supply Chain Management, go to **Transportation management** \> **Setup** \> **Transportation management parameters**.
1. On the **Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability integration configuration** tab, select **Validate connection** to check whether your Microsoft Power Platform environment is correctly set up and ready for the integration.
1. When the validation is completed, in the **Model name** field, select the model that best matches the transportation scenario that you want to calculate carbon emissions for:

    - *None* – This value indicates that you haven't yet selected a model. When this value is selected, emission calculations are disabled.
    - *Downstream transportation and distribution* – This model includes emissions that are generated by the transportation and distribution of sold products in vehicles that the reporting organization doesn't own or control.
    - *Upstream transportation and distribution* – This model includes emissions that are generated by third-party transportation and distribution services and emissions that are generated by the transportation and distribution of purchased products.

    > [!NOTE]
    > For information about how Microsoft Sustainability Manager calculates Scope 3 emissions, see [Categories 4 and 9: Upstream and downstream transportation and distribution](/industry/sustainability/calculate-scope3#categories-4-and-9-upstream-and-downstream-transportation-and-distribution#categories-4-and-9-upstream-and-downstream-transportation-and-distribution).

1. Set the **Enable McFS integration** option to *Yes*.
1. Select **Save**.
