Object groups are useful for sorting and filtering the data about objects for
reports and statistics. For example, you can group objects by geographical
location or by type.

Group by geographical location

You can use this grouping method to show where the various different objects
that your company services are located. Grouping objects by geographical
location can also be useful if, for example, you must identify the objects that
your company already provides services for in a particular country/region.

Example

A customer from Belgium calls your service center and wants to create a service
agreement for an object, ABC. You have attached an object group for geographical
location, Belgium, to all objects that are serviced in Belgium. By using this
group as a filter, you can quickly search to see whether you already have a
record for ABC in the program, or whether you must set up a new object. For more
information about filtering, see Filter records.

Group by type

You can use this grouping method to show the types of objects that your company
services. Grouping objects by type can also be useful if, for example, you want
to create a new object based on similar objects that already exist in the
program.

Example

A customer calls and wants to set up a service agreement for an air conditioning
machine, HIJ. You do not already have a record for this machine. However, you
have set up an object group titled Air Conditioners, and you have attached this
group to all air conditioning objects. Therefore, you can quickly search for and
identify all other air conditioning machines and use the template information
from these objects to create service agreement lines for HIJ. By using object
groups in this manner, you can quickly set up new objects and determine the
service tasks that must be performed on them. For more information about
searching and filtering, see Filter records.
