This topic describes how to use features in the Service management and the
Project management and accounting modules to create service agreements.

Create a service agreement from Service management

>   Service agreements

>   Click the Service agreement button to create a new service-agreement line in
>   the form header. Enter a description, select a reference to a project in the
>   Project ID field, and fill in the rest of the fields and lines for the
>   service agreement. For more information about completing the form, see
>   Service agreements (Form).

>   Click the Setup tab and select Service objects or Service tasks to create
>   service object relations or service task relations for the service
>   agreement. The service objects and tasks that you have created relations for
>   can be attached on the lines of the service agreement.

>   In the lower half of the Service agreements form, create service-agreement
>   lines by copying lines from a service template, another service agreement,
>   or manually creating the service-agreement lines.

If you copy lines into the service agreement from another service agreement, you
can indicate whether you also want to copy service-object and service-task
relations. If you copy these relations, they are added to any existing relations
on the service agreement. If you copy service-agreement lines from a service
template, the service-object and service-task relations are automatically copied
as service-object relations and service-task relations on the new
service-agreement lines.

Create a service agreement from Project

>   All projects Select the project from the list and click the Maintain tab. On
>   the Action Pane, click Service and select Service agreement.

>   Follow the steps in the section titled Create a service agreement from
>   Service management procedure, as described earlier in this topic, starting
>   with step 2. The project reference will be entered automatically.

Create service task relations  
Copy service templates

Create service agreement lines manually
