The service-agreement interval indicates the frequency with which service-order
lines are created for service-agreement lines when you create service orders
automatically.

When you create service orders automatically, service-order lines are created
according to the interval that you have specified for the service-agreement line
from the start date of the agreement line.

If the Interval field of a service-agreement line in the Service agreements form
is blank, the line is a one-time event, and it is not used to create service
orders repeatedly.

Example

This example illustrates how a service interval will affect service-agreement
lines and service-order lines on a service order.

Create service agreement

First, you create a service agreement and set the Combine service orders option
to By service agreement.

>   Service agreements

>   On the **Action Pane**, on the Service agreement tab, in the New group,
>   click Service agreement to create a new service agreement.

>   On the General FastTab, enter a description, select a project in the Project
>   ID field, and enter a date in the Start date field.

>   In the Combine service orders field, select By service agreement.

You have now created the following service agreement:

| Project      | Start date                                                                         |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Your project | The date you specified for the project. In this example, the current date is used. |

Create service-agreement line

Next, you create a service-agreement line that has the transaction type Hour.

To complete this part of the example, you must create a service interval of 10
days in the Service intervals form. For information about setting up the service
interval, see Set up service intervals.

>   Select the service agreement that you just created. On the Lines FastTab,
>   click the Add button to create a new line in the lower pane of the Service
>   agreements form.

>   In **the** Transaction type field, select Hour.

>   In the Worker field, select the worker who will deliver the service.

>   In the Service interval field, select the 10 days interval.

You have now created a service-agreement line with the following information:

| Transaction type | Start date                               | Service interval |
|------------------|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| Hour             | The current date.                        | Every 10 days    |
| Worker           | The worker who will perform the service. |                  |

There is no time window specified for the line. For more information about time
windows, see About time windows.

Create planned service orders

You can now create planned service orders and service-order lines for the coming
month.

>   In the Service agreements form, on the **Action Pane**, on the Deliver tab,
>   click Planned service orders.

>   In the Create service orders form, enter the current date in the From date
>   field and a date that is one month from the current date in the To date
>   field.

>   Select the Hour check box.

>   Click **OK**.

Because there is no grouping on the service order (defined by the By service
agreement option in the Combine service orders field), one service-order line is
created per service order.

Service orders created

Three service-order lines have been created within the time frame that you
specified in the Create service orders dialog box. You can view the
service-order lines in the Service agreements form (**Action Pane** \> Deliver
**tab \>** View button).

Set up service intervals  
Create service order lines  
About automatic creation of service orders
