---
title: Asset classifications
description: Finance and operations apps provide a default set of classifications for the kinds of data that are stored in each table.
author: ToddLefor
ms.date: 12/31/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 
audience: Developer
ms.reviewer: josaw
ms.search.region: Global
ms.author: tlefor
ms.search.validFrom: 2017-12-31
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.0
---

# Asset classifications

[!include[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

Finance and operations apps provide a default set of classifications for the kinds of data that are stored in each table. These classifications are subject to change depending on the need to identify different kinds of data. The actual classification for each field in each table can change at any time, depending on differing needs for identifying data.

Through customization, you can change the classification of the following data to meet your own classification and tracking needs.

-  **Customer content** – Data collected and managed by the controller (some of which can be personal data).

-  **End User Identifiable Information** (EUII) – A natural value used to identify a user of the service.

-  **End User Pseudonymous Information** (EUPI) – A generated value used to identify the user of the service. 

-  **Organizational Identifiable Information** (OII) – A value used to identify the organization using the service.

-  **System metadata** – A value that describes the software or used by the software, typically generated by the software.

-  **Object metadata** – A value that describes the software or used by the software, but can be provided by the tenant or user of the software.

-  **Account data** – A value provided by or used by the tenant to identify the billing information or identify the software used by the tenant.

-  **Support data** – Information used to provide customer support.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
