---
title: Business events generated by the Export to Azure Data Lake service
description: Learn about business events that are generated by the Export to Data Lake add-in in finance and operations apps.
author: MilindaV2
ms.author: johnmichalak
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 01/16/2026
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
audience: Developer, IT Pro
ms.search.region: Global
ms.search.validFrom:
ms.search.form:
ms.dyn365.ops.version:
---

# Business events generated by the Export to Azure Data Lake service

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

> [!NOTE]
> Over the past 12 months, we've been working to fill in gaps and add new features that members of the user community have highlighted. [Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service built into Power Apps](/power-apps/maker/data-platform/azure-synapse-link-select-fno-data), the successor to the **Export to Data Lake** feature in finance and operations apps, is generally available and ready for you. Azure Synapse Link provides one experience for working with data from all Microsoft Dynamics 365 apps.
>
> We want you to benefit from the enhanced performance, flexibility, and improved user experience that Azure Synapse Link offers as soon as possible. Therefore, we announced the deprecation of the **Export to Data Lake** feature, effective October 15, 2023. If you're already using the **Export to Data Lake** feature, you can continue to use it until November 1, 2024. If you're new to the **Export to Data Lake** feature or are planning to adopt this feature in the coming months, use Azure Synapse Link instead.
>
> We understand that the transition might seem daunting, but we want to provide a smoother experience and offer guidance. To get started, see the [Azure Synapse Link transition guide](https://aka.ms/TransitionToSynapseLink). We're listening closely to the community and are working on multiple features to help make the transition smoother. We announce these other improvements to the transition process as we bring new features online. If you want to stay in touch, join the community at [https://aka.ms/SynapseLinkforDynamics](https://aka.ms/SynapseLinkforDynamics).

## What are business events?

Microsoft Dynamics 365 applications generate business events when something interesting occurs during a business process (for example, an invoice is posted). Dataverse and Microsoft Power Platform, the platform that underlies Dynamics 365 products, also generate business events. External applications can consume business events and trigger actions. For more information about business events, see [Microsoft Dataverse business events](/powerapps/developer/data-platform/business-events).

The Export to Data Lake service generates business events when data transfer activities complete or an issue is encountered. You can create automated actions to respond to these events. For example, if you have an automated data pipeline that continuously copies changed data rows from your data lake to another location, special actions might be required when a table is deactivated or reactivated. Instead of processing changed rows, you might want to trigger a full copy operation in response.

You can listen for business events and create automatic triggers to respond to business events as they occur. We refer to the automated actions that these triggers initiate as *business actions*. You don't have to listen for all business events. You can listen for and react to only the business events that interest you.

## Business events that the Export to Data Lake service generates

The Export to Data Lake service generates several business events.

- **Initialize complete** – This event indicates that initialization for a selected table is complete. When you select a table to activate, the system makes an initial copy of the data in the data lake. If you don't enable the **Near real-time data changes** feature, the system periodically initializes data in the data lake. The system might automatically initialize selected tables if it encounters a service operation in Finance and Operations apps, such as a database restore. In both these scenarios, the system generates **Initialize complete** events. If you enable multiple tables in the environment, you receive multiple business events as initialization is completed for each table.
- **Metadata changed** – This event indicates that table metadata changed. For example, a new column was added to the table, or (in rarer cases) a column was deleted. You receive multiple events for each table, one for each metadata change. If you have downstream data pipelines that can't react to metadata changes (a situation that's known as *schema drift*), you can detect changes by using these events and modify downstream pipelines.
- **Deactivated** – This event indicates that a previously active table was deactivated. When you deactivate a table, data changes in finance and operations apps aren't updated in the data lake.
- **Activated** – This event indicates that a previously deactivated table was reactivated. When you reactivate a table, the system reinitializes data in the data lake. You might later receive an **Initialize complete** event.
- **Error** – This event indicates that the Export to Data Lake service paused updates to data in the data lake.
- **Lake switch** – This event indicates that the system administrator changed the location of the data lake.

    > [!NOTE]
    > This event isn't yet implemented.

## Enable business events

If you're using the Export to Data Lake add-in in finance and operations apps, business events are already enabled in your environment. To take action when the system generates business events, you must install the **Dynamics 365 Export to Data Lake** solution in your Microsoft Power Platform environment.

To install the **Dynamics 365 Export to Data Lake** solution, open the Power Platform admin center. You must be an administrator in the Microsoft Power Platform environment. Find the solution, and select **Install**.

## Create a business action

You can create an action by using Power Automate, Azure messaging services such as Logic Apps, and many third-party tools. For the sake of simplicity, this section explains how to create a business action by using the [When an action is performed](/connectors/commondataserviceforapps/#when-an-action-is-performed-(preview)) trigger of the Power Automate Dataverse connector.

Each business event provides an event message that helps you identify the table that the event affects. You can think of an event message as a parameter that you pass to a business action. The following table shows the business events and the event message schemas.

| Business event                    | Description                                      | Event message (parameters)            |
|-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| Initialize complete     | The system completes a full copy of a table. | TableName: string, FolderPath: string |
| Metadata changed        | Table metadata changes.                      | TableName: string                     |
| Deactivated             | A table is deactivated.                    | TableName: string                     |
| Activated               | A table is activated.                      | TableName: string                     |
| Error                   | The service pauses because of an error.      | TableName: string, StatusCode: int    |
| Lake switch (not yet implemented) | <p>The data lake location changes.</p><p><strong>Note:</strong> This event isn't yet implemented.</p> |                                       |

To create a business action by using Microsoft Power Automate, follow these steps:

1. In the Power Apps maker portal, select **Flows** to open the Power Automate portal.
1. Select **My flows**, and then select **New Flow**.
1. Select **Automated Cloud flow**, and then select **When an action is performed**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/NewAutomatedCloudFlow.png" alt-text="Screenshot of creating an automated cloud flow in Power Automate.":::

1. Select **Dynamics 365 finance and operations Export to Data Lake** as the catalog and **Data Export** as the category.
1. Leave the **Table name** field set to **(none)**. This parameter isn't applicable to the Export to Data Lake service.
1. Choose to create an action when any of the business events fire. In the **Action name** field, select one of the business events from the preceding table. For this example, select **Error**, because you want an action to be performed when an error occurs in the service.
1. Add a new step. You can implement any step that's available in Power Automate. For this example, add a step to send an email. You can select parameters such as the table name when you compose the email message.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/WhenActionisPerformed.png" alt-text="Screenshot of creating a business action with the When an action is performed trigger.":::

1. Save the flow. You should now receive an email if a table goes into an error status.

## Any questions or feedback?

The product team is actively working on this and other features. If you want to stay in touch and ask questions of the product team or your fellow customers or partners, or if you want to provide feedback directly to the product team, join the [Preview Early Access](https://engage.cloud.microsoft/main/org/microsoft.com/groups/eyJfdHlwZSI6Ikdyb3VwIiwiaWQiOiIyMzc5NDE5MzIwMzIifQ) community on Microsoft Viva Engage. You can attend weekly online "office hours" meetings and use the Viva Engage online forums to stay in touch and ask questions.
