---
# required metadata

title: Service request tracing
description: Instrument request IDs in your service requests
author: jaredha
ms.date: 04/06/2022
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: IT Pro, Developer
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: sericks
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: jaredha
ms.search.validFrom: 2022-04-06

---
# Service request tracing

When developing data integrations with Finance and Operations service endpoints, it is best practice to include a request identifier in the headers to enable tracing the request through the service. Your client application should generate and log a Client Request Id (```x-ms-client-request-id```) value and send the value in the API request header. This is a GUID value to uniquely identify a single client request.

The Finance and Operations service logs the ```x-ms-client-request-id``` value received in the request header making it available as an identifier for the request in service telemetry.

## Troubleshooting API operations

If a request is consistently failing and you have verified that the request is properly formulated, then you may need to open a support request with Microsoft to assist in troubleshooting the issue. In your support request, include the following values:

1. The ```x-ms-client-request-id``` value generated by your client application and sent in the request header.
2. The ```ms-dyn-aid``` value, which is the Finance and Operations activity ID. This is a unique identifier generated by Finance and Operations for the request, which is sent back to the client in the response header.
3. The approximate time that the request was made.

These two values enable Microsoft to trace the request through service telemetry and troubleshoot the cause of the request failure. If the service doesn't return a response to the client, in which case the ```ms-dyn-aid``` value isn't provided, ensure at least the ```x-ms-client-request-id``` value and approximate time of the request are provided in the support ticket to trace the API request.
