---
# required metadata

title: Split generated files based on file size and content quantity
description: 
author: NickSelin
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 05/03/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-platform
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User, Developer, IT Pro
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kfend
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 220314
ms.assetid: 2685df16-5ec8-4fd7-9495-c0f653e82567
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: nselin
ms.search.validFrom: 2018-04-01
ms.dyn365.ops.version: Release 8.0

---

# Split generated files based on file size and content quantity

[!include[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

You can design Electronic reporting (ER) formats to generate outgoing documents in xml format. In some cases, the submitted documents can be accepted only when they simultaneously satisfy certain criteria:

  -	File size does not exceed a certain limit;
  -	File contains a limited number of certain xml nodes;
  -	Various limits can be applied for the quantity of different xml nodes simultaneously.

Now you can design ER formats to generate electronic documents that can satisfy the requirements mentioned above:

  -	File size limit can be defined for the FILE format element as an ER expression. Whenever this limit is exceeded during an ER report execution, ER will complete the creation of the current file and start making the next one
  -	Elements quantity limit can be defined for any XML ELEMENT format element as an ER expression. Whenever the number of generated by this element xml nodes in the generated file exceeds the defined limit during an ER report execution, ER will complete the creation of the current file and start making the next one
  -	Elements quantity limit can be defined for any XML SEQUENCE format element as an ER expression. Whenever the number of nested xml nodes of this format element in the generated file exceeds the defined limit during an ER report execution, ER will complete the creation of the current file and start making the next one
  -	Any XML ELEMENT format element can be marked as non-breakable to keep the nested items of xml nodes generated under such format element in a single generated file

Note
In addition to the XML ELEMENT and XML SEQUENCE format element, xml nodes can be placed to the generated file by the RAW XML format element. In this case such nodes will not be considered during the computation of number of nodes for evaluation of xml items quantity limits. 

Note
If you configured some GER files destinations for a FILE format element that has been configured to split the generated output whenever some limits are exceeded, each piece of generated output will be sent as an individual file to the configured files destinations.

Note
To uniquely name the files that have been created by splitting of an ER output, the ER expression for the ER format FILE component must be configured. The ER data source of the NUMBER SEQUENCE type can be included to such expression – a selected number sequence will be incremented for each piece of the splitting output.

To learn more about this feature, play the task guide ER Xml file splitting based on limits of file size and items quantity (part of the 7.5.4.3 Acquire/Develop IT service/solution components (10677) business process), which walk through how an ER format can be configured to split generated files based on defined limits of file size and content items quantity.
Download the following files to complete the task guide mentioned above.

Title	File name
ER model configuration	XmlFilesSplittingModel.xml 

ER format configuration	XmlFilesSplittingFormat.xml 


