---
title: FAQ for the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature
description: This FAQ provides answers to frequently asked questions about the AI technology that's used in the "Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data" feature in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management. It includes key considerations and details about how the AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: 07/20/2023
ms.custom: 
  - transparency-note
ms.topic: article
author: johanhoffmann
ms.author: johanho
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
---

# FAQ for the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature

This FAQ provides answers to frequently asked questions about the AI technology that's used in the  *Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data* feature in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management. It includes key considerations and details about how the AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.

## What is the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature?

The *Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data* feature monitors the behavior of a machine and generates an alert if any abnormal patterns or deviations from the usual behavior are detected. This scenario requires the installation of a sensor that continuously collects data and sends it to the Azure IoT hub for analysis. The anomaly detection system analyzes the data in real time and triggers an alert if it identifies any anomalies or deviations from normal operating conditions. This proactive approach helps identify potential issues before they become significant problems. Therefore, it enables timely maintenance or intervention to minimize downtime and optimize machine performance.

## What are capabilities of the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature?

The feature uses [Azure AI Anomaly Detector](/azure/ai-services/anomaly-detector/overview) to monitor and detect anomalies in your time series data by using artificial intelligence. Anomaly Detector is a component of Azure AI services. When an anomaly is detected, supervisors receive a notification that includes relevant information in a Supply Chain Management workspace.

## What is the intended use of the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature?

The intended use of the feature is to help supervisors identify and predict issues before they become urgent. Supervisors can then proactively fix the issues to help prevent costly downtime on machines and equipment.

## How was the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

The feature underwent substantial testing before it was released. It uses Azure Anomaly Detector, which is part of Azure AI services and has been widely adopted by many organizations.

The feature takes dependency on the Azure Anomaly detector service, which is compliant with Microsoft AI principles, as described in the [Anomaly Detector transparency note](/legal/cognitive-services/anomaly-detector/ad-transparency-note). The feature has also been tested on datasets generated by the Microsoft team.

## What are the limitations of the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature? How can users minimize the impact of these limitations when using it?

While supervisors are configuring the feature, they can set thresholds that control how sensitive the detection system should be when it identifies anomalies. The sensitivity of the detection system affects how often notifications are generated. Notifications don't affect any other business data or processes. They're used only to provide awareness.

## How can I evaluate and control the accuracy of the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature?

The accuracy and sensibility of the feature are tied to the Azure anomaly detector service. For advice about how to tune the accuracy of the anomaly detection, see [Best practices for improving accuracy](/legal/cognitive-services/anomaly-detector/characteristics-and-limitations#best-practices-for-improving-accuracy). The feature allows supervisors to [tune the sensitivity](sensor-data-intelligence/sdi-scenario-anomaly.md) of the detection result. In general, a high sensitivity value makes the model more sensitive to outliers and is likely to identify more anomalies. A low sensitivity value usually means the model will tolerate minor outliers.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the Detect spikes and deviations in sensor data feature?

Supervisors should familiarize themselves with the options that are available for configuring the anomaly detection component. The following options are available:

- **Sensitivity** – Define the sensitivity of the anomaly detection algorithm. The higher the value, the more sensitive the system will be and the more notifications you'll receive.
- **Maximum anomaly ratio** – Define the maximum number of anomaly alerts that the sensor should generate per period. The higher the value, the more notifications you'll receive.

## See also

- [Anomaly detection scenario](sensor-data-intelligence/sdi-scenario-anomaly.md)
- [What is Anomaly Detector?](/azure/ai-services/anomaly-detector/overview)
