---
title: Transparency notes for the Confirmed purchase orders with changes workspace
description: This transparency note provides information about the AI technology used in the Confirmed purchase orders with changes workspace for Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management, along with key considerations and details about how the AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: 06/19/2023
ms.custom: 
  - transparency-note
ms.topic: article
author: kamaybac
ms.author: kamaybac
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
---

# Transparency notes for the Confirmed purchase orders with changes workspace

This transparency note describes the AI impact of Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management's **Confirmed purchase orders with changes** workspace.

## What is the Confirmed purchase orders with changes workspace?

The **Confirmed purchase orders with changes** workspace makes it fast and easy for procurement professional to assess, manage, and follow up on changes made to purchase orders after they were confirmed. It uses Copilot to generate natural-language change summaries and draft communications with vendors.

## What are the system's capabilities?

The system takes changes to confirmed purchase orders as input and then identifies the downstream orders related to those purchase orders. The feature uses Copilot to generate natural-language summaries and draft communications for vendors. Copilot uses the generative AI model *Text-davinci-003* to generate the natural-language content.

## What is the system's intended use?

The **Confirmed purchase orders with changes** workspace is intended to help procurement professional to review changes to confirmed purchase orders and to mitigate the downstream impacts. It supports a workflow where the purchaser starts by reviewing and reconfirming changed purchase orders with little or no downstream impact, and provides tools to help the purchaser assess and mitigate the impact of changes that to have significant downstream impact.

Messaging text generated by Copilot isn't intended to be used without manual review or supervision.

## How was the feature evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

The **Confirmed purchase orders with changes** workspace underwent substantial testing before it was released. It relies on user feedback to report inappropriate content.

If you encounter inappropriate content being generated, report it to Microsoft using this feedback form: [Report abuse](https://msrc.microsoft.com/report/abuse?ThreatType=URL&IncidentType=Responsible%20AI&SourceUrl=https://dynamics.microsoft.com/supply-chain-management/overview/). Your feedback helps improve the functionality moving forward.

Microsoft may disable the Copilot-driven features for selected customers if abuse of the functionality is detected.

## What are the limitations of the feature? How can users minimize the impact of its limitations when using the system?

The **Confirmed purchase orders with changes** workspace uses Copilot to generate a summary of impact and generates proposed communication content.

The generated content should never be used without manual review or supervision.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system?

When using the feature, follow these recommendations:

- Always review generated summaries and study the detailed lists of changes and impacts before making decisions on reconfirming purchase orders.
- Always review generated communication drafts before sending them in email or posting them to a Teams message.

## See also

- [Review and accept changes to confirmed purchase orders](procurement/purchase-order-changes-after-confirmation.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
