---
# required metadata

title: Fiscal service (ESR) integration
description: This topic provides information about the Fiscal service integration for Austria and the Czech Republic.
author: Anasyash
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 11/03/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: Dynamics365Operations
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form:  [Operations AOT form name to tie this topic to]
audience: Application user
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: shylaw
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: 
ms.search.region: Austria, Czech Republic 
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: Anasyash
# ms.search.validFrom: 
# ms.dyn365.ops.version: 
---

# Fiscal service (ESR) integration

[!include[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

In Austria, all cash payments should be signed by an external device or service and securely stored. In Czech Republic, all cash payments should be sent to the government portal for a fiscal signature. In both countries, a cash receipt should be issued where the signature is printed.

To support this requirement for these two countries, Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations, Enterprise edition allows you to integrate with fiscal service that is compliant with specific requirements for cash payment control in different countries. This topic documents an example integration using the EFR fiscal service provided by EFSTA(European Fiscal Standards Association).

The integration example includes: 
- After the completion of posting of the cash payment liable for registration, a cash register transaction with data to be signed is created and sent for the registration to Fiscal service in the specified XML format. 
- Response with a signature and fiscal codes (generated by Fiscal service per country-specific rules) is received from Fiscal service and stored in the Cash register fiscal transaction.
- The cash receipt with transaction data and signatures/fiscal codes is printed.

> [!NOTE]
> It's assumed that all other specific country legal requirements concerning the registered transactions are fulfilled on the side of Fiscal service and it is the user's responsibility to properly set up and administer the third-party Fiscal service.


