---
# required metadata

title: Set up parameters for SPED EFD
description: This topic provides information about how to set up parameters for SPED EFD for Brazil. 
author: ShylaThompson
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 6/5/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form:  
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: shylaw
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: 
ms.search.region: Brazil
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: shylaw
ms.search.validFrom: 2017-12-31
ms.dyn365.ops.version: 7.3

---

# Set up parameters for SPED EFD - Contributions

This topic explains how to specify parameters for SPED EFD - Contributions text files by using the **EFD – Contributions parameters** form.

The SPED EFD - Contributions text files are generated by legal entities that already have the obligation to issue Accounting and Fiscal SPED. The text files include the transactions that represent the Programa de Integração Social (PIS) and Contribuição para o Financiamento da Seguridade Social (COFINS) taxable and non-taxable revenue, and the cost or expenses with credit of PIS and COFINS.


> [!NOTE]
> The procedure for completing this task has changed for Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3. For information that is specific to Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, see the section later in this topic.



## Set up requirements for SPED EFD - Contributions

To set up requirements for SPED EFD – Contributions text files, follow these steps:

1.  Click **Fiscal books** \> **Setup** \> **Tax statements parameters**. Select **EFD - Contributions**. On the **Setup parameters** FastTab, click **Open**.

2.  In the **EFD – Contributions parameters** form, enter the required SPED EFD - Contributions information.

3.  In the **File location** field, enter the location where the SPED EFD - Contributions text files will be saved.

4.  In the **Type of activity** field, select the activity type from the following options:
    
      - **Industrial or equivalent** **Industrial**
    
      - **Services**
    
      - **Retail**
    
      - **Financial activity**
    
      - **Real estate activity**
    
      - **Others**

5.  In the **Version** field, select the version of the SPED EFD - Contributions layout.

6.  Select the type of legal entity.

7.  In the **Assessment regimen** field, select the assessment schema that is used for SPED EFD - Contributions from the following options:
    
      - **Non cumulative** – Calculate assessments based on billing or debits and purchases and deductions or credits.
    
      - **Cumulative** – Calculate assessments based on billings that don’t have any deductions or credits.
    
      - **Both** – Calculate assessments based on both the **Non cumulative** and **Cumulative** regimens.

8.  In the **Booking and assessment criteria** field, select the criteria to use to book the tax credit. For Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, only the **Detailed** option is supported.

9.  Select the type of assessment contribution. For Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, only the **Basic tax value** contribution is supported.

10. In the **Credit allocation method** field, select the method of credit allocation: **Direct** or **Proportional distribution**.
    
    This field is available if **Non cumulative** or **Both** are selected in the **Assessment regimen** field.

11. In the **NFe and ECF options** field, select the NFe transaction reporting option from the following options:
    
      - **Consolidated** – Consolidate all NFe transactions into one record on the C18X fiscal report.
    
      - **Detailed** – List all individual transactions on the fiscal report.

12. On the **Fiscal establishment** FastTab, enter the required SPED ECD information. 
## Record 0111

The record 0111 in SPED EFD Contributions is generated automatically when the Credit allocation method is Proportional distribution.

The record is generated based on the tax transactions with the following criteria:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Concept</p></th>
<th><p>Criteria</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Taxable income</strong></p></td>
<td><ul>
<li><p><strong>Regime - Non cumulative</strong> – This includes tax transactions with non cumulative tax rate and specific tax rate. See</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Fiscal Value</strong> – This include tax transactions with fiscal value = 1 (with debit)</p></li>
<li><p><strong>CFOP</strong> – Tax transactions with CFOP starting on 5 or 6</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Non taxable Income</strong></p></td>
<td><p><strong>Fiscal Value</strong> – This include tax transactions with fiscal value = 2 (exempt) or 3 (non taxable others).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Foreign Income</strong></p></td>
<td><ul>
<li><p><strong>Fiscal Value</strong> –This include tax transactions with fiscal value = 1 (taxable).</p></li>
<li><p><strong>CFOP</strong> – Tax transactions with CFOP starting on 7.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Non revenue</strong></p></td>
<td><p>All tax transactions with taxation code = 49 or 99.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
