---
title: Manage CAPA cases
description: CAPA cases let you record, update, track, follow up on, and close issues that are raised by your customers, vendors, or employees.
author: johanhoffmann
ms.author: johanho
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.form:
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/25/2025
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
---

# Manage CAPA cases

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

Use corrective and preventive action (CAPA) cases to record, update, track, follow up on, and close issues that are raised by your customers, vendors, or employees.

## Create a new CAPA case

You can create CAPA cases from many different pages in the system, including pages where you work with records from which CAPA cases might originate, such as customers, vendors, sales orders, purchase orders, return orders, and released products. You can also create them from the **All CAPA cases** and **My CAPA cases** pages.  When you create a CAPA case from a related or originating record, the case is linked to that record automatically.

1. Go to the customer, vendor, sales order, purchase order, return order, or released product record from which the CAPA case originates.
1. Depending on what page you're working on, do one of the following steps.
    - For customers or vendors – On the **General** tab, in the **New** group, select **CAPA case**.
    - For sales orders, purchase orders, or return orders – On the **General** tab, in the **CAPA** group, select **Create CAPA case**.
    - For released products – On the **General** tab, in the **Maintain CAPA cases** group, select **Create CAPA case**.
    - From the **All CAPA cases** or **My CAPA cases** page – To create a new, unlinked CAPA case, select **New** \> **CAPA case** on the Action Pane. To create a new CAPA case that is linked to an existing case, select the parent case on the grid and then select **New** \> **Dependent CAPA case** on the Action Pane.

1. Regardless of where you are when you create your new CAPA case, the **New CAPA case** dialog opens. Make the following settings on **General** tab of the dialog:
    - **Name** – Enter or select a person's name from the global address book to associate with the CAPA case. If you started from a customer, vendor, sales order, purchase order, or return order, this is set automatically based on the record that was selected when you created the CAPA case.
    - **Case ID** – The CAPA case identification number. This number is generated by the system.
    - **Status** – Select the status of the CAPA case. The default status is *Opened*, which means it's not being worked on yet. You or the assigned worker should change it to *In process* when work begins on it.
    - **Description** – Enter a short description of the CAPA case. This description is used to identify the case in lists and reports and is shown as the heading of the case when you open it.
    - **Priority** – Select the CAPA case priority.
    - **Parent case** – If you want to associate the case with another case, select the parent case here. This is set automatically if you chose a parent case when creating the current CAPA case.
    - **CAPA category** – Select a category for the CAPA case. The category is used for reporting purposes to analyze trends.
    - **CAPA subcategory** – If the category you selected has subcategories defined for it, then select one here. The subcategory is used for reporting purposes to analyze trends.
    - **Description** – Enter a brief description of the CAPA case.
    - **Priority** – Select the CAPA case priority.
    - **CAPA process** – Select the CAPA process that should be followed to resolve this case. The CAPA process defines a series of stages, which must be completed in order, and activities, which should be completed within each stage before continuing to the next one. The process is used to guide the workers who are assigned to the case through the steps needed to resolve it.

1. If you'd like to add a log entry to the case, open the **Case log** tab and enter the details of the log entry. You can view and add log entries from the details page for a CAPA case.

1. Select **OK** to create the case and open its details.

## View CAPA cases

To view all CAPA cases related to a selected customer, vendor, sales order, purchase order, return order, or released product, open or select the relevant record and then do one of the following:

- For customers or vendors – On the **General** tab, in the **Accounts** group, select **CAPA case**.
- For sales orders, purchase orders, or return orders – On the **General** tab, in the **CAPA** group, select **View CAPA cases**.
- For released products – On the **General** tab, in the **Maintain CAPA cases** group, select **View CAPA cases**.

To view and work with all CAPA cases in the system, use one of the following navigation paths

- **Inventory management** \> **Periodic tasks** \> **CAPA management** \> **All CAPA cases**
- **Common** \> **Common** \> **CAPA management** \> **All CAPA cases**

To view and work only with the CAPA cases that you are responsible for, use one of the following navigation paths.

- **Inventory management** \> **Periodic tasks** \> **CAPA management** \> **My CAPA cases**
- **Common** \> **Common** \> **CAPA management** \> **My CAPA cases**

On opening a CAPA case, its details page opens. 

Work with a CAPA case

### FastTabs on the details page

The details page has the following FastTabs:

- **General** – View or edit general information about the selected CAPA case. Many of these values are set when the case is created, as described earlier in this article.
- **Case log** – View, add, or edit information about the CAPA case.
- **Associations** – View or edit information about records that are associated with the CAPA case. Examples of the records that can be associated to a CAPA case include: sales order, item, vendor, batch order. Often, one or more these associations are set automatically when the case is created, but you can add more of them as you work with the case.
- **Knowledge article** – View or edit information about knowledge articles that are associated with the CAPA case.
- **Administration** – View administrative details about the CAPA case, such as the date the case was opened and the user who opened it.
- **Resolution** – <!-- KFM: Description needed -->

### Work through a CAPA process