---
title: Non-fiscal operations (Brazil)
description: This article describes how to create nonfiscal document transactions to include in the SPED EFD text file in Brazil with Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance.
author: AdamTrukawka
ms.author: atrukawk
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
ms.date: 03/20/2025
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
ms.search.region: Brazil
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-06-30
---

# Non-fiscal operations (Brazil)

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]

This article describes how to create nonfiscal document transactions to include in the Sistema Publico de Escrituração Digital Escrituracao Fiscal Digital (SPED EFD) text file in Brazil with Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance.

Use the following procedure to create nonfiscal document transactions to include in the SPED EFD text file. The SPED EFD text files are generated by legal entities that already have the obligation to issue Accounting and Fiscal SPED files. The text files provide information about transactions that represent the Programa de Integração Social (PIS) and Contribuição para o Financiamento da Seguridade Social (COFINS) taxable and nontaxable revenue, and the cost or expenses with credit of PIS and COFINS. Operations that aren't related to fiscal documents, such as rent, or revenue or expenses that are related to operations, must be included in record F100 of the text file. The procedure uses the BRMF demo company.

To create nonfiscal document transactions to include in the SPED EFD text file, follow these steps.

1. In Dynamics 365 Finance, go to **General ledger \> Journal entries \> General journals**.
1. Select **New**.
1. In the list, mark the selected row.
1. In the **Name** field, enter or select a value.
5. Select **Lines**.
6. In the list, mark the selected row.
7. In the **Account type** field, select an option.
8. In the **Account** field, enter a value.
9. In the **Description** field, enter or select a value.
10. In the list, select the link in the selected row.
11. In the **Debit** field, enter a number.
12. Select **Financial dimensions**.
13. Select **Account**.
14. In the **Filial** field, enter or select a value.
15. Select **OK**.
16. In the **Offset account** field, enter a value.
17. In the **Item sales tax group** field, enter or select a value.
18. In the **Sales tax group** field, enter or select a value.
19. Select **Sales** tax.
20. Select **OK**.
21. Select **Post**.
22. Close the page.
24. Go to **Fiscal books \> Common \> Booking period**.
25. Select **Non fiscal operations**.
26. Close the page.
28. Go to **Fiscal books \> Common \> All non fiscal operations**.
29. Close the page.
30. Select **Create new booking period** to open the drop dialog.
31. In the **Fiscal establishment** field, enter or select a value.
32. Select **OK**.
33. Select **Sync**.
34. Select **OK**.



[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
