---
# required metadata

title: Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance + Operations (on-premises) automated diagnostics collection
description: This article explains how to quickly collect information required to troubleshoot issues in your environment.
author: faix
ms.date: 9/28/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: dynamics-365 
ms.service:
ms.technology:

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form: [Operations AOT form name to tie this article to]
audience: IT Pro
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: sericks
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: [used by loc for topics migrated from the wiki]
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: [leave blank for most, retail, public sector]
ms.author: osfaixat
ms.search.validFrom: 2023-09-28 
ms.dyn365.ops.version: Platform update 62
search.app:
  - financeandoperationsonprem-docs
---

# Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance + Operations (on-premises) automated diagnostics collection

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

This article explains how to quickly collect information required to troubleshoot issues in your environment. The diagnostics collection leverages a new set of PowerShell scripts that are available starting with Infrastructure Scripts version 2.19.0. For more information on updating your scripts, see [Update the Infrastructure Scripts](obtain-infrascripts-onprem.md#update-the-infrastructure-scripts).

These new scripts do not replace other scripts like Test-ADFSConfiguration.ps1 or Test-D365FOConfiguration.ps1. They are meant to complement them. Eventually, these other scripts will be updated to output information in a similar format to the new scripts.

The purpose of these scripts is to collect information that is required to troubleshoot issues in your environment. At this point, these scripts do not perform any troubleshooting or remediation steps.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The purpose of these scripts is to collect information from your environment and conveniently package it for Microsoft to analyze. These scripts do not send any information to Microsoft. You must manually provide the information to Microsoft through a support ticket.

## Collect node specific diagnostics

When collecting information from a particular node, you can use the following command:
```powershell
.\Get-NodeSpecificDiagnostics.ps1
```

> [!NOTE]
> This script needs machine specific information to run. As such, it is part of the scripts that get exported as part of the Export-Scripts.ps1 and will be pushed to the machine using the remoting scripts.

By default, this script will create a directory at the same level as the script called **Diagnostics**. This directory will contain the following:

- Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) events that have been exported. Specifically, these will contain any Dynamics 365 Finance + Operations (on-premises) related publishers. Additionally, a subset of Security and Application logs will be exported.

- For all Service Fabric applications that are deployed on that node, any logs generated by the applications will be exported. This also includes the latest health events that each applications has generated in that node.

If you will not use remoting to collect information from multiple nodes, and you need to provide information from multiple nodes to Microsoft make sure you manually copy the **Diagnostics** directory from each node. Then, zip the directories into a single file and provide it to Microsoft.

### Collect node specific diagnostics using remoting

When collecting information from all nodes in your service fabric cluster, you can use the following command:
```powershell
.\Get-NodeSpecificDiagnostics-AllVMs.ps1 -ConfigurationFilePath .\ConfigTemplate.xml
```

This script will invoke the **Get-NodeSpecificDiagnostics.ps1** script on each node in the cluster. The output that that script generates will be output to a directory called **Diagnostics** on each node. The output will then be collected from each node and placed in a directory called **Diagnostics** at the same level as the **Get-NodeSpecificDiagnostics-AllVMs.ps1**.

If you want to collect information from a subset of nodes, you can use the **-MachinesToCollectFrom** parameter. For example, if you want to collect information from nodes **Node1** and **Node2**, you can use the following command:
```powershell
.\Get-NodeSpecificDiagnostics-AllVMs.ps1 -ConfigurationFilePath .\ConfigTemplate.xml -MachinesToCollectFrom @("Node1", "Node2")
```

## Collect general diagnostics

When collecting general diagnostics information, you can use the following command:
```powershell
.\Get-GeneralDiagnostics.ps1 -ConfigurationFilePath .\ConfigTemplate.xml
```

This script is not node specific and does not need to be run on each node or exported to each node. In order to collect as much information as possible, this script should be invoked on a node belonging to the service fabric cluster. Additionally, the account used to execute the script should have privileges to connect to your SQL server and FileShare server. The output of this script will be placed in a directory called **Diagnostics** at the same level as the script.

The following information will be collected:
- Information about your Service Fabric cluster.
- Information about your SQL Server version.
- Information from your SQL Server databases related to deployment operations. No customer data will be collected.
- Information from your file shares related to deployment operations. No customer data will be collected.
- Information about your Infrastructure Scripts.

## Providing the diagnostics information to Microsoft

Once you have collected the diagnostics information, you can provide it to Microsoft by using the following steps:

1. Create a new support request through [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services (LCS)](https://lcs.dynamics.com/v2).
1. Find the **Diagnostics** directory that was created by the scripts. Then, zip the directory.
1. When prompted by a support engineer to provide logs, upload the zip file to the secure file upload location that the support engineer provides.


[!include [footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]