---
title: VALUEIN ER function
description: This article provides information about how the VALUEIN Electronic reporting (ER) function is used.
author: kfend
ms.date: 12/14/2021
ms.prod: 
ms.technology: 
audience: Application User, IT Pro
ms.reviewer: kfend
ms.search.region: Global
ms.author: filatovm
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-02-28
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.0
ms.assetid: 24223e13-727a-4be6-a22d-4d427f504ac9
ms.search.form: ERDataModelDesigner, ERExpressionDesignerFormula, ERMappedFormatDesigner, ERModelMappingDesigner
---

# VALUEIN ER function

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

The `VALUEIN` function determines whether the specified input matches any value of a specified item in the specified list. It returns a *Boolean* value of **TRUE** if the specified input matches the result of running the specified expression for at least one record of the specified list. Otherwise, it returns a *Boolean* value of **FALSE**.

## Syntax

```vb
VALUEIN (input, list, list item expression)
```

## Arguments

`input`: *Field*

The valid path of an item of a data source of the *Record list* type. The value of this item will be matched.

`list`: *Record list*

The valid path of a data source of the *Record list* data type.

`list item expression`: *Boolean*

A valid conditional expression that either points to or contains a single field of the specified list that should be used for the matching.

## Return values

*Boolean*

The resulting *Boolean* value.

## Usage notes

In general, the `VALUEIN` function is translated to a set of **OR** conditions. If the list of **OR** conditions is large and the maximum total length of an SQL statement might be exceeded, consider using the [`VALUEINLARGE`](er-functions-logical-valueinlarge.md) function.

```vb
(input = list.item1.value) OR (input = list.item2.value) OR …
```

In some cases, it can be translated to a database SQL statement by using the `EXISTS JOIN` operator.

> [!NOTE]
> The value that the `VALUEIN` function returns is [used differently](er-functions-list-filter.md#usage-notes), depending on whether this function is used to specify the selection criteria for the [`FILTER`](er-functions-list-filter.md) function or the [`WHERE`](er-functions-list-where.md) function.

## Example 1

In your model mapping, you define the **List** data source of the *Calculated field* type. This data source contains the expression `SPLIT ("a,b,c", ",")`.

When a data source is called, if it has been configured as the `VALUEIN ("B", List, List.Value)` expression, it returns **TRUE**. In this case, the `VALUEIN` function is translated to the following set of conditions: `(("B" = "a") or ("B" = "b") or ("B" = "c"))`, where `("B" = "b")` equals **TRUE**.

When a data source is called, if it has been configured as the `VALUEIN ("B", List, LEFT(List.Value, 0))` expression, it returns **FALSE**. In this case, the `VALUEIN` function is translated to the following condition: `("B" = "")`, which doesn't equal **TRUE**.

The upper limit for the number of characters in the text of such a condition is 32,768 characters. Therefore, you should not create data sources that might exceed this limit at runtime. If the limit is exceeded, the application stops running, and an exception is thrown. For example, this situation can occur if the data source is configured as `WHERE (List1, VALUEIN (List1.ID, List2, List2.ID)`, and the **List1** and **List2** lists contain a large volume of records.

In some cases, the `VALUEIN` function is translated to a database statement by using the `EXISTS JOIN` operator. This behavior occurs when the [`FILTER`](er-functions-list-filter.md) function is used and the following conditions are met:

- The **ASK FOR QUERY** option is turned off for the data source of the `VALUEIN` function that refers to the list of records. No additional conditions will be applied to this data source at runtime.
- No nested expressions are configured for the data source of the `VALUEIN` function that refers to the list of records.
- A list item of the `VALUEIN` function refers to a field of the specified data source, not to an expression or method of that data source.

Consider using this option instead of the [`WHERE`](er-functions-list-where.md) function that is described earlier in this example.

## Example 2

You define the following data sources in your model mapping:

- The **In** data source of the *Table records* type. This data source refers to the Intrastat table.
- The **Port** data source of the *Table records* type. This data source refers to the IntrastatPort table.

When a data source is called that has been configured as the `FILTER (In, VALUEIN(In.Port, Port, Port.PortId)` expression, the following SQL statement is generated to return filtered records of the Intrastat table.

```vb
select … from Intrastat
exists join TableId from IntrastatPort
where IntrastatPort.PortId = Intrastat.Port
```

For **dataAreaId** fields, the final SQL statement is generated by the using `IN` operator.

## Example 3

You define the following data sources in your model mapping:

- The **Le** data source of the *Calculated field* type. This data source contains the expression `SPLIT ("DEMF,GBSI,USMF", ",")`.
- The **In** data source of the *Table records* type. This data source refers to the Intrastat table, and the **Cross-company** option is turned on for it.

When a data source is called that has been configured as the `FILTER (In, VALUEIN (In.dataAreaId, Le, Le.Value)` expression, the final SQL statement contains the following condition.

```vb
Intrastat.dataAreaId IN ('DEMF', 'GBSI', 'USMF')
```

## Additional resources

[Logical functions](er-functions-category-logical.md)

[VALUEINLARGE functions](er-functions-logical-valueinlarge.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
