---
# required metadata

title: LISTDISTINCT ER function
description: This topic provides information about how the LISTDISTINCT Electronic reporting (ER) function is used.
author: NickSelin
manager: kfend
ms.date: 7/30/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-platform
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: ERDataModelDesigner, ERExpressionDesignerFormula, ERMappedFormatDesigner, ERModelMappingDesigner
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User, IT Pro
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: kfend
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: nselin
ms.search.validFrom: 2020-08-01
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 10.0.14

---

# LISTDISTINCT ER Function

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]
[!include [banner](../includes/preview-banner.md)]

The `LISTDISTINCT` function calculates the specified expression as a selector for every record of the specified list. It returns a new *Record list* value that contains a single record for each unique selector value.

## Syntax

```
LISTDISTINCT (list, selector)
```

## Arguments

`list` : *Record list*

The valid path of a data source of the *Record list* data type.

`selector` : *Primitive data type*

A valid expression that is used to calculate a selector value for every record in the specified list.

The following data types are supported for this parameter:

- *Boolean*
- *Date*
- *DateTime*
- *GUID*
- *Integer*
- *Int64*
- *Real*
- *String*

## Returns

*Record list*

The resulting list of records.

## Usage notes

The structure of the created list matches the structure of the specified list.

If the same selector value has been calculated for more than one record in the specified list, field values of the corresponding record in the created list are equal to values of the first record from the specified list for which that selector value is calculated.

The execution of this function is performed on any [Electronic reporting (ER)](general-electronic-reporting.md) data source of the *Record list* type that is present in the memory.

The list of records for which the selector with distinct values was calculated, can be also be generated by using the **GROUPBY** data source. However, from a performance and memory consumption perspective, using the LISTDISTINCT function is preferable to the use of the **GROUPBY** data source as the execution is performed in memory.

## Example

The following example shows how you can acquire the list of unique customer account numbers to which at least one sales invoice or project invoice has been issued within a certain period of time.

1. Enter the data source **SalesInvoice** of the `Record list` type that refers to the **CustInvoiceJour** application table and filters sales invoices for certain periods of time. 

    - The `InvoiceAccount` field of this data source returns the account number of an invoiced customer.
    
2. Enter the data source **ProjectInvoice** of the `Record list` type that refers to the **ProjInvoiceJour** application table and filters project invoices for certain period of time.

    - The `InvoiceAccount` field of this data source returns the account number of an invoiced customer.
    
3. Configure the data source **AllInvoices** of the `Calculated field` type that contains the expression `LISTJOIN(SalesInvoice, ProjectInvoice)`. It returns the joined list of sales and project invoices.
4. Configure the data source **InvoicedCustomer** of the `Record list` type that contains the expression `LISTDISTINCT(AllInvoices, AllInvoices.InvoiceAccount)`. It returns a new list containing a single record for every unique customer that has been invoiced during the defined period of time. The **InvoiceAccount** field of this list contains a customer account number.

## Additional resources

[List functions](er-functions-category-list.md)
