---
title: Generate electronic documents and update application data by using ER
description: Learn about how to design Electronic reporting (ER) formats that can be used in the application to generate outgoing electronic documents.
author: kfend
ms.author: filatovm
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 04/08/2026
ms.reviewer: johnmichalak
audience: Developer, IT Pro
ms.search.region: Global
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-02-28
ms.search.form: ERSolutionTable, ERVendorTable, ERWorkspace
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.0
ms.assetid: 018a11ae-854c-4f36-9358-8c39baca882d
---

# Generate electronic documents and update application data by using ER

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]

You can design Electronic reporting (ER) formats that the application uses to generate outgoing electronic documents. You can also design ER formats that parse incoming electronic documents and use the content in those documents to update application data.

By using this functionality, you can use a single ER format to generate outgoing electronic documents and then update the application data. Use this feature in the following scenarios:

- To prevent repeated usage of application data in subsequent processes, mark an application’s data immediately after you use it to generate electronic documents. For example, mark payment transactions as already processed immediately after you include them in a generated payment message.
- To store the processing details of electronic documents that you generate by using ER logic. For example, a unique payment message identification that is generated by using the ER expression. The expression is based on information entered in the ER dialog box when the ER format is run to generate documents.

To learn more about this feature, watch the set of ER Generate documents with application data update Task guides (part of the 7.5.4.3 Acquire/Develop IT service/solution components (10677) business process). The guides walk you through the details of Intrastat reporting and archiving. The following files are required to complete certain steps in these Task guides. Download and save these files to your local machine.

- [ER data model configuration: Intrastat (model)](https://download.microsoft.com/download/9/c/e/9ceeacbe-c13e-422e-96f2-594c4a6b45b7/Intrastatmodel.xml)
- [ER model mapping configuration: Intrastat (mapping)](https://download.microsoft.com/download/2/1/d/21ddaaeb-64c5-4408-a35f-1ccb922d40a4/Intrastatmapping.xml)
- [ER format configuration: Intrastat (format)](https://download.microsoft.com/download/8/b/b/8bbb8891-e88d-4739-b92a-2d1d2fffcb79/Intrastatformat.xml)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
