---
# required metadata

title: Email templates
description: This topic provides information about the email templates that you can create and use in Attract.
author: 
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 10/19/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-365-talent
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: josaw
ms.search.scope: Talent, Core
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 7521
ms.assetid: 3b953d5f-6325-4c9e-8b9b-6ab0458a73f8
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: rschloma
ms.search.validFrom: 2018-10-15
ms.dyn365.ops.version: Talent October 2018 update

---

# Email templates
[!include[banner](../includes/banner.md)]

Using the email template library, administrators can create a uniform theme and branding for all emails sent through Attract. Administrators can also curate a collection of email content templates for other users to consume. The hiring team can use these templates in their workflow and send emails more efficiently. Some emails in Attract are configured to be sent automatically and the Admin can use the email template library to customize the content for such emails as well.

## Global template configurations

To set a consistent branding for all email communications, the Admin first needs to set the global header and footer for all
email templates. These can be set in the **Admin center** in the **Email template settings section**. Here, the Admin can upload an image to be set as the header or banner for all emails under the **Header** subsection. The image might be a company logo, a letterhead or any other representative image. We recommend that the width be between 25 and 800 pixels and the height be between 25 and 150 pixels as these dimensions are optimal for most email clients, such as Outlook. This image must be a JPEG, JPG, PNG, or SVG and the file size is required to be under 1 MB. After an image in uploaded, a preview of the header is generated and displayed. If the header image needs to be removed or replaced, the Admin can use the **Remove** option above the preview. The Admin can also provide links to the company’s privacy policy for communications and terms and conditions in the **Footer** section. These links are incorporated into a footer which is autogenerated and a preview of this footer is displayed. Save your changes before navigating away from the Admin
center.

> [!NOTE] 
> The header and footer are global settings for all emails and will appear in all emails sent through Attract. If the settings are not configured, the header and footer are left out of all emails.

## Email template library 

After the global template configurations are setup, the Admin can start to create and curate templates for all emails that are sent from Attract. The email template library is only available to Admins. To navigate to the library, in the main navigation menu, click the **Email templates** tab. The library is organized based on the various activities in Attract that require the sending of emails, such as **Scheduling**, **Assessment**, and **Job Creation**. The Admin can click on any of these categories to view all of the email types
associated with the activity. For example, clicking **Scheduling** will show the different types of emails sent during the scheduling process and all of the templates available for each email type. Each subsection of the library within a particular category represents a type of email. 

Some email types can have more than one recipient. For example, within **Scheduling**, the emails sent when *They need the interview schedule summary* are sent to both candidates and interviewers. Each subsection has two main columns, **Template Title** and **Recipient**. Each row in a section represents a single template for a type of email. At first, the Admin will notice that all templates have a lock icon on their row item. This represents the standard template that is provided with Attract and can't be deleted. Using the ellipsis menu on any template, the Admin can duplicate a template, set it to be a default, or delete it. Setting a template as
default can cause one of two behaviors which is indicated by the badges that appear on the template row:

- **Default**: This indicates that the template is the default template for a sent email and will be pre-populated when a user is sending that particular kind of email.
- **Default + Autosent**: This combination indicates that the template is the active template for an email system-generated emails that are sent automatically. 

To edit a template, click a template row and make changes to the template.

> [!NOTE]
> Each recipient for a particular type of email will have a default template. All of the standard attract templates are set as default
until an Admin creates a new template for a particular kind of email and sets it to be the default.

## Create new templates

To create a new template, in the top right corner of the email template library, click **+New template**.
To choose the email that you are creating a new template for, select the recipient, the process, and the event that requires the email to be sent, and then click **Create**.

The template will open in editing view. Here, you can name the template. For example, *University_US_Francais* could be the title for a template meant for candidates from a US University, the content for which is written in French. The title, subject line, and body content for any template can support other languages in addition to English.

The **To field** for a template is not editable as you already selected the recipient when you first created the template.

You can add personas such as the Recruiter or Hiring Manager, to the Cc line. These roles will automatically be replaced with the appropriate users per the job context when the email is sent.

The subject line and body content have **placeholder support**. You can insert placeholders by typing **\#** and then selecting the appropriate placeholder from the auto-complete drop-down. The list of available placeholders is on the right side of the page. These placeholders are updated based on the context of the job and the recipient when the email is sent. For instance, if a template for an email that is sent to candidates contains the placeholder \#{Candidate_Name}, when this email is being sent to
Cameron, this placeholder will be replaced with Cameron’s name.

The body content editor is a rich text editor and has support for text styling and formatting, as well as inserting hyperlinks and anchors.

After a template is created for a particular type of email, click the ellipsis menu on the template row item to set it as the default.

## Consume templates

When sending an email, the hiring team can use the templates created by the Admin. If multiple templates have been created for a user-sent email, a drop-down will appear in the email composition workflow. The user can then select the appropriate template. The default template will pre-populate automatically, but the user can choose to use a different template as needed.

> [!NOTE] 
> For emails that are sent automatically, multiple templates can be created, but only one can be set as the active template. Because this process is event triggered, only the Admin can determine which template should be used as denoted by the Default and Autosent
badges in the template library.
