Email templates 
================

Using the email template library, administrators can set a uniform theme and branding for all emails
sent through Attract. Further, administrators are able to curate a collection of email content
templates for other users to consume. The hiring team can use these templates in
their workflow and send emails more efficiently. Some emails in Attract are
triggered to be sent automatically and the Admin can use the email template
library to customize the content for such emails as well.

Global template configurations
------------------------------

The first step for the Admin to complete in order to set a consistent branding
for all email communications is to set the global header and footer for all
email templates. These can be set via the **Admin center** in the **Email
template settings section**. Here, the Admin can upload an image to be set as
the header or banner for all emails under the **Header** subsection. Such an
image could be a company logo, a letterhead or any other representative image.
We suggest that the width be between 25 and 800 pixels and the height be between
25 and 150 pixels as these dimensions are optimal for most email clients such as
Outlook. This image must be a JPEG, JPG, PNG, or SVG and the file size is
required to be under 1 MB. Once an image in uploaded, a preview of the header is
generated and displayed. If the header image needs to be removed or replaced,
the Admin can use the **Remove** option above the preview. The Admin can also
provide links to the company’s privacy policy for communications and terms &
conditions for the same in the **Footer** section. These links are incorporated
into a footer which is autogenerated and a preview of this footer is displayed.
Please remember to **Save** your changes before navigating away from the Admin
center.

[!NOTE] The header and footer are global settings for all emails and will appear
in all emails sent through Attract. If the settings are not configured, these
elements are simply left out of all emails.

Email template library 
-----------------------

Once the global template configurations have been setup, the Admin is ready to
start creating and curating templates for all emails sent from Attract. The email
template library is only available to Admins. To navigate to the library, click the
**Email templates** tab in the main navigation menu. The library
is organized based on the various activities within Attract that require the
sending of emails, such as Scheduling, Assessment and Job Creation among others.
The Admin can click on any of these categories to view all the email types
associated with that activity. For instance, clicking on Scheduling will show
you all of the different types of emails sent during the scheduling process and
all of the templates available for each email type. Each subsection of the
library within a particular category represents a type of email. Some email
types can have more than one recipient. For instance, within Scheduling,
the emails sent when *They need the interview schedule summary* are sent to both
candidates and interviewers. Each subsection has two main columns, the
**Template Title** which represents the template title and the **Recipient**.
Each row in a section represents a single template for a type of email. At
first, the Admin will notice that all templates have a lock icon on their row
item. This represents the standard template that is provided with Attract and
cannot be deleted. Using the ellipsis menu on any template, the Admin can
duplicate a template, set it to be default or delete it. Setting a template as
default can cause one of two behaviors which is indicated by the badges that
appear on the template row –

-   Default: This indicates that this template is the default template for a
    user sent email and will be the pre-populated when a user is sending that
    particular kind of email.

-   Default + Autosent: This combination indicates that this template is
    currently the active template for a type of email that is sent
    automatically. When the relevant event occurs, this email template will be
    used to send a system generated email to the recipient.

Clicking on a template row item will take the Admin to the editing experience
for the template where they can make changes to the content of that template.

Note: Each recipient for a particular type of email will have a default
template. To begin with all the standard attract templates are set as default
until an Admin creates a new template for a particular kind of email and sets it
to be the default.

Creating new templates
----------------------

To create a new template, the Admin needs to click the **+New template** button
which can be found in the top right of the email template library.

To choose the email for which the Admin wishes to create a new template, they
can simply choose the recipient, the process and the event that requires the
email to be sent from the dropdown menus. Once these are chosen, simply hit
**Create.**

The Admin will automatically be navigated to the template editing view. Here
they can set the title of the template. For example, *University_US_Francais*
could be the title for a template meant for candidates from a US University, the
content for which is written in French. The title, subject line and body content
for any template can support other languages in addition to English.

The **To field** for a template is not editable as you already selected the
recipient in the creation dialog.

You can add personas such as the Recruiter, Hiring Manager, etc. in the CC line.
These personas will automatically be replaced with the appropriate individuals
at the time of sending the email as per the job context in which they are sent.

The subject line and body content have **placeholder support**. The Admin can
**insert placeholders by simply typing in \#** and choosing the appropriate
placeholder from the auto-complete dropdown. The list of available placeholders
is on the right side of the page. These placeholders are replaced appropriately
at the time of sending the email based on the context of the job and the
recipient. For instance, if a template for an email that is sent to candidates
contains the placeholder \#{Candidate_Name}, when this email is being sent to
Cameron, this placeholder will be replaced with Cameron’s name.

The body content editor is a rich text editor and has support for text styling
and formatting, as well as inserting hyperlinks and anchors.

When the Admin is done editing the template, they can hit **Save** to save their
changes. If they do not want to retain the changes, they can navigate back to
the email template library and choose to discard changes when prompted to save
their work.

Once the Admin creates a template for a particular type of email, they can use
the ellipsis menu on the template row item to set it as the default as mentioned
above.

Consuming templates
-------------------

The hiring team can use the templates created by the Admin when sending an
email. If multiple templates have been created for a user-sent email, a dropdown
will appear in the email composition workflow allowing them to choose the
template they would like to use. The template which is set as default by the
Admin will pre-populate automatically to begin with, but the user can choose to
use a different template as needed.

[!NOTE] For emails that are sent automatically, multiple templates can be created
but only one can be set as the active template to be used every time that type
of email is sent. Since this process is event triggered, only the Admin can
determine which template should be used as denoted by the Default and Autosent
badges in the template library.
