---
# required metadata

title: Talent system requirements
description: This topic lists requirements for Dynamics 365 Talent.
author: andreabichsel
manager: AnnBe
ms.date: 10/21/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-365-talent
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form:
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User, IT Pro
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: anbichse
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations, Talent
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 63213
ms.assetid: 5dbc62fc-0184-4c0e-9856-e735fc68799e
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: anbichse
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-02-28
ms.dyn365.ops.version: July 2017 update

---

# Talent system requirements

[!include [banner](includes/banner.md)]

This topic describes requirements for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Talent, including Attract and Onboard. It also outlines the countries and regions where Talent is available, plus information about languages and localization for Talent data. In additions, this topic provides the update policy for Talent.

## Supported web browsers

Microsoft Dynamics 365 Talent can run in any of the following web browsers that run on the specified operating systems: 

*   Microsoft Edge (latest publicly available version) on Windows 10
*   Internet Explorer 11 on Windows 10, Windows 8.1, or Windows 7
*   Google Chrome (latest publicly available version)
*   Apple Safari (latest publicly available version)

To find the latest release for each web browser, go to the software manufacturer’s website. 

> [!NOTE]
> * To capture images that are generated from Task Recorder and include them in Microsoft Word documents, you must have a Chrome extension installed. 
> * The Workflow Editor is started as a ClickOnce application. Only Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer (on a supported version of Microsoft Windows) support ClickOnce applications. The Workflow Editor ClickOnce application requires a 64-bit compatible operating system.
> * To preview PDF files, we recommend that you use modern browsers like Microsoft Edge (latest publicly available version) on Windows 10, or Google Chrome (latest publicly available version) on Windows 10, Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, or Google Nexus 10 tablet.
>   Network requirements
> * Dynamics 365 Talent is designed for networks with latency of 250-300 milliseconds (ms) or less. This is the latency from a browser client to the Microsoft Azure data center that hosts Talent. We recommend that you test network latency at [www.azurespeed.com](https://www.azurespeed.com "Azure Latency Test").
> * Bandwidth requirements for Talent depend on your scenario. Most typical scenarios require a bandwidth of more than 50 kilobytes per second (KBps).
> 
> [!WARNING]
> Don't compute bandwidth requirements from a client location by multiplying the number of users by the minimum bandwidth requirements. The concurrent usage of a given location is very difficult to calculate. For customers who are concerned about bandwidth requirements, use a trial version of Talent.

## Supported Microsoft Office applications

* To run the Microsoft Excel and Word add-ins, you must have Microsoft Office 2016 for Windows or Mac installed. For more details about version requirements, see [Office integration troubleshooting](../dev-itpro/office-integration/office-integration-troubleshooting.md "Office integration troubleshooting").
* To view documents that are generated by the Export to Excel or Export to Word functionality, you must have Microsoft Office 2007 or later installed.

## Regional availability, languages, and localization

You can download a PDF file of the countries, regions, and languages Talent supports at [International availability of Microsoft Dynamics 365](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/get-started/availability). 

> [!NOTE]
> While the user interface is localized into other languages, all user data is stored in the language in which it was entered. You can create emails and templates in other languages, but data such as scheduling information is only available in English at this time.

If you're a developer interested in creating country- or region-specific customizations, or in creating a solution for a country or region not currently supported by Microsoft, see [Globalization](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/unified-operations/dev-itpro/lcs-solutions/country-region).

