---
# required metadata

title: Transition methods
description:  This topic describes the three transition methods that are compliant with IFRS 16.
author: moaamer
manager: Ann Beebe
ms.date: 08/07/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: roschlom
ms.search.scope: Core, Operations, Retail

# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.custom: 4464
ms.assetid: 5f89daf1-acc2-4959-b48d-91542fb6bacb
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: vstehman
ms.search.validFrom: 2020-08-07
ms.dyn365.ops.version: 10.0.14
---

# Transition methods

[!include [banner](../includes/banner.md)]
[!include [preview banner](../includes/preview-banner.md)]

This topic describes the three transition methods that are compliant with IFRS 16. Asset leasing module contains all three transition methods that are compliant with IFRS 16:

Full retrospective

The Full retrospective approach treats the lease as if IFRS 16 has always been applied from the original commencement date. The payments are discounted using the Incremental borrowing rate as of the Commencement date. Therefore, all schedules are created from the Commencement date forward.

•	Lease liability
–	Ending balance from the liability amortization schedule in the period immediately before the Transition date
•	Right-of-use asset
–	Net book value from the asset depreciation schedule in the period immediately before the Transition date

Cumulative Catch Up
Both cumulative catch-up options allow the comparative periods to stay as they were reported in the past. The differences between the assets and liability are recognized in opening retained earnings at Transition date.

Cumulative Catch Up Option A
Like the Full retrospective approach, Cumulative catch up option A will create all schedules from the Commencement date forward. However, unlike the Full Retrospective approach, the system will calculate the present value of lease payments using the Incremental borrowing rate as of the Transition date.

•	Lease liability
–	Ending balance from the liability amortization schedule in the period immediately before the Transition date
•	Right-of-use asset
–	Net book value from the asset depreciation schedule in the period immediately before the Transition date

Cumulative Catch Up Option B
Schedules are created starting on the Transition date. These leases are essentially treated as a new lease with a Commencement date equal to the Transition date. Payments are discounted using the Incremental borrowing rate as of the Transition date.

•	Lease liability
–	Sum of present value of lease payments from the payment schedule
•	Right-of-use asset
–	Sum of present value of lease payments from the payment schedule plus any Deferred rent carryover

Example of Transition Options
The examples below illustrate the different transition methods and the expected beginning balances of the right-of-use asset and lease liability generated by the transition adjustment. The Transition date for these examples is assumed to be 1/1/2020:

General tab inputs:
Field	Value
Fair value of the asset	600,000
Incremental borrowing rate	5%
Incremental borrowing rate at transition	10%
Compounding interval	Monthly
Asset useful life (months)	600
Annuity type	Annuity due
Commencement date	07/01/2019
Payment schedule lines tab inputs:
Field	Value
Start date	7/1/2019
Period interval	Monthly
Periods	12
End date	06/30/2020
Payment frequency	Monthly
Payment amount	1,000

Full Retrospective:

In this method, the liability and asset are calculated as if IFRS 16 had always applied to the lease. The liability of the lease is calculated by discounting the sum of the present value of future minimum lease payments by the rate at commencement which is 5%.
The Ending liability balance for the period ending 12/31/2019 from the Liability amortization schedule is 5,938.10.
The Net book value for the period ending 12/31/2019 from the Asset depreciation schedule is 5,864.95.
The transition adjustment journal entry is:
Dr. Lease asset 5,864.95
Dr. Retained earnings 73.15
Cr. Lease liability 5,938.10

## Cumulative Catch-Up Option A:

In this method, the liability and asset are calculated as if IFRS 16 had always applied to the lease however the payments are discounted using the current incremental borrowing rate. The liability of the lease is calculated by discounting the sum of the present value of future minimum lease payments by the rate at transition which is 10%.

The Ending liability balance for the period ending 12/31/2019 from the Liability amortization schedule is 5,877.39.
The Net book value for the period ending 12/31/2019 from the Asset depreciation schedule is 5,734.65.
The transition adjustment journal entry is:
Dr. Lease asset 5,734.65
Dr. Retained earnings 142.74
Cr. Lease liability 5,877.39

## Cumulative Catch-Up Option B:

In this method, the lease is treated as if it was a new lease commencing on the transition date. The liability of the lease is calculated by discounting the sum of the present value of future minimum lease payments from the transition date by the rate at transition which is 10%. The asset is equal to the liability amount plus any deferred rent carryover amount.

The present value of future minimum lease payments for the remaining 6 months of 1,000 discounted at 10% compounded monthly is 5,877.39.
The Transition adjustment journal entry is:
Dr. Lease asset 5,877.39
Cr. Lease liability 5,877.39

