---
title: Work with integrated CLM (preview)
description: Work with integrated CLM.
author: Henrikan
ms.author: henrikan
ms.reviewer: kamaybac
ms.search.form:
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/25/2024
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
---

# Work with integrated CLM features (preview)

[!include [banner](../../includes/banner.md)]
[!INCLUDE [preview-banner](~/../shared-content/shared/preview-includes/preview-banner.md)]
<!-- KFM: Preview until 10.0.43 GA  -->

This article describes how adding contract lifecycle management (CLM) integration affects the way Microsoft Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management works and where you can find CLM elements in the Supply Chain Management user interface.

> [!NOTE]
> These changes only take effect when the CLM integration feature is configured for and connected to a CLM solution. For details about how to enable the feature and set up the integration, see [Enable and configure CLM integration](developer/clm-enable.md).

## View and work with all integrated contracts

<!-- KFM: I rewrote and expanded this. Please confirm -->

To work with integrated contracts in Supply Chain Management, go to **Procurement and Sourcing** \> **Contracts** \> **All contracts**. From here, you can do the following actions:

- View all of the contracts that were created using your CLM system. Each of these contracts is synced from the external system and is read-only here. For each contract, you can see the current status, important dates, and other information.
- Use the **Filter** field and/or the filtering and sorting controls available from the column headers to find a specific contract.
- To view, edit, or amend a listed contract, select it in the grid and then select **View**, **Edit**, or **Amend** on the **Contract** tab of the Action Pane. Each of these commands opens the selected contract in your external CLM system. The availability of these options depends on how you have [configured the integration](developer/clm-enable.md).
- To add a new contract, select **New** on the **Contract** tab of the Action Pane to open the contract-creation page in your external CLM system. The availability of this option depends on how you have [configured the integration](developer/clm-enable.md).
- To view all purchase agreements associated with a specific contract, select the contract in the grid and then select **Purchase agreement** on the **Contract** tab of the Action Pane.

## View contracts associated with a selected vendor

While you're working with a vendor record, you can easily see which contracts are associated with that vendor. To view the contracts associated with a specific vendor, follow these steps.

1. Go to **Procurement and Sourcing** \> **Vendors** \> **All vendors**
1. Find and select the vendor you want to work with. You must select just one vendor at a time.
1. On the Action Pane, open the **Procurement** tab and, from the **Agreements** group, select **Contracts**.
1. The **All contracts** page opens, filtered to only show contracts from your selected vendor. The previous section describes how to work with this page.

## Purchase agreements with external CLM integration

When you're using CLM integration, purchase agreements work slightly differently when compared to a non-integrated Supply Chain Management system.

To view your purchase agreements, go to **Procurement and sourcing** \> **Purchase agreements** \> **Purchase agreements**. The following differences apply here when you're using CLM integration:

- The **Purchase agreements** list page now includes the following new columns:
    - **Contract ID** – Identifies the externally managed contract associated with each purchase agreement (if any). This value is generated by and synced from the external CLM system. A purchase agreement can only reference one external contract.
    - **Contract status** – Shows the contract status fo contracts that exist within the context of an external contract. <!-- KFM: I don't see this here. Remove? -->

- The **Purchase agreements** details page **Header** tab now includes a new **Contract** FastTab with the following fields:
    - **Contract ID** – Identifies the externally managed contract associated with the selected purchase agreement (if any). This value is generated by and synced from the external CLM system.
    - **Status** – Shows the status of contracts that exist within the context of an external contract. This value is synced from the external CLM system.
    - **Purchase agreement ownership type** – This value identifies the owner of the purchase agreement. It can have the following values:
        - *Supply Chain Management* – Indicates that the purchase agreement was created directly in Supply Chain Management, and all aspects of these purchase agreements must be managed using Supply Chain Managed instead of your external CLM system.
        - *External contract management* – Indicates that the purchase agreement was created by a contract in an external CLM, so processing and editing options are limited in Supply Chain Management. Purchase agreements of this ownership type show values for **Contract ID** and **Status** on the **Contract** FastTab. All edits and lifecycle changes are managed by the external CLM system, which automatically syncs updated values back to Supply Chain Management.

- Approval workflows aren't applied for purchase agreements where **Purchase agreement ownership type** is *External contract management*. Instead, the external CLM system is responsible for updating the purchase agreement **Status** from *On hold* to *Effective*, bypassing any workflow configuration in Supply Chain Management. This process is used because, in an integrated solution, the contract is approved by all relevant parties, signed, and executed in the external CLM system, resulting in updating the status of the purchase agreement. Any additional approval workflows applied in Supply Chain Management would be disruptive to the approval process already conducted in the external CLM system.

- When a purchase agreement owned by an external CLM system is selected, the following actions are disabled on the **Purchase agreement** tab of the Action Pane on both the list and details pages:
    - **Intercompany: Generate sales agreement**
    - **Intercompany: View sales agreement**
    - **Maintain: Activities**
    - **Generate: Confirmation and proforma confirmation**
    - **Generate: Proforma confirmation**

- You can't delete purchase agreements owned by an external CLM system.

- When a purchase agreement owned by an external CLM system is selected, most of the fields on the **Header** tab of the **Purchase agreements** details page are read-only. *Exceptions* to this rule include:
    - **Vendor reference**
    - **External document reference**
    - **Line matching policy**
    - **Delivery address**
    - **Payment specification**
    - **Charges group**
    - **Mode of delivery**
    - **Buyer group**
    - **Pool**
    - **Shipping carrier**
    - **Carrier service**
    - **Carrier group**
    - **Mode**
    - **Route plan**
    - **Transportation template ID**
    - All settings on the **Financial dimensions** FastTab


<!-- KFM: I'm not sure what this is for. Didn't we already list this above?

    When a purchase agreement is owned by an external CLM, only the following line updates are supported within the Supply Chain Management UI:
    
    - All financial dimensions

--> 

## Known limitations

The following known limitations apply when you're using CLM integration:

- Intercompany purchase and sales agreement aren't supported.
- Purchase agreement approval workflow isn't supported. <!--KFM: I think we already covered this...  -->

<!-- KFM: Should we mention anything about NDAs? -->