---
# required metadata

title: Set up the Bulk resume upload AI feature in Dynamics 365 Human Resources Recruiting add-on (preview)
description: This article describe the Bulk resume upload AI feature in Dynamics 365 Human Resources Recruiting add-on.
author: twheeloc
ms.date: 04/14/2025
ms.topic: article
# optional metadata

ms.search.form: 
# ROBOTS: 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 

# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.assetid: 
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: 
ms.author: anisagrawal
ms.search.validFrom: 2020-12-03
ms.dyn365.ops.version: Human Resources

---

# Set up the Bulk resume upload AI feature in Dynamics 365 Human Resources Recruiting add-on (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

This article describe the Bulk resume upload AI feature in Dynamics 365 Human Resources Recruiting add-on.

[!INCLUDE [preview-note](~/../shared-content/shared/preview-includes/preview-note-d365.md)]


The Bulk Resume Upload AI feature in Dynamics 365 Human Resources Recruiting add-on is an AI-powered tool designed to optimize and automate the process of uploading, organizing, and analyzing large quantities of 
resumes simultaneously. This feature is beneficial for companies and recruiters that receive a substantial number of applications for open positions, facilitating more efficient management and processing. This 
feature enables recruiters to upload multiple resumes simultaneously from various file formats (PDF, JPG, PNG, JPEG), significantly reducing the time required compared to manually uploading individual resumes. The
AI will parse the uploaded resumes and generate candidate profiles by extracting all relevant information. Users can then review and edit these candidate profiles as necessary. 

Uploading a resume generates a batch that creates candidate profiles from the resumes. The system shows profile creation progress through a progress bar. Recruiters can view and click on candidate profile IDs to 
access detailed profiles extracted by AI, which they can review and edit as needed. 

## How to activate bulk resume upload:  

The administrator should navigate to Environment Variables from the left menu pane. 

Search for msdyn_hcm_ResumeParser and select it. 

Set the default value to 'Yes' or create a new environment variable and input 'Yes' in the Value field. 

Save the changes. 

## How to upload resume in bulk: 

Select 'Bulk Resume Upload' from the left menu pane. 

Click on the 'Upload Resume' button. 

Browse to the location and select the resume(s) to upload. 

The system will begin processing the selected resumes. A progress bar will display the number of resumes that have been parsed. 

AI will generate the profile of the parsed resume. 

Upon successful profile creation, a candidate ID will be generated. Click on the candidate ID to view the details extracted by AI. 

## How to Edit the profile generated by bulk resume upload AI feature: 

Upon successful profile creation, a candidate ID will be generated inside batch.  

Click on the candidate ID to view the details extracted by AI. It will take you to the candidate profile. 

You can review the profile created by AI an edit the information if required. 

## Provide feedback 

Each page of the bulk resume upload provides the option to give feedback through the thumbs up or thumbs down icons. You may click on the thumbs up icon if you find the feature useful and beneficial. Conversely, 
you can click on the thumbs down icon if you find the feature unhelpful or unsatisfactory. 
